People generally don’t buy Organic Food because of two reasons: High Cost Trust for the Organic Brand for which high price is paid.
Everything on the planet is organic - even man made things are compiled from organic elements.
Hey, the bestest apple in the world still has levels of Arsenic in it.
As to your question, no, there are not significant difference in the environmental impacts of typical organic foods versus most conventional foods, or most GM foods.
There is decent evidence to suggest it is no better for your health and actually worse for the environment.
The foods are proven no more safe and overall are likely worse for the environment.
I truly believe that the majority of "organic" produce sold in super markets is all about marketing and is misleading to the consumers.
I just want you to know I am not attacking your point on better farming practices, but just specifically the idea that organic food you buy at the super market is better than conventional.
They can also just as dangerous , and they can sometimes be much, much worse !
Last, several cases exist where organic pesticides are worse than synthetics.
Evidence shows that people who eat organic food have no health benefits compared to conventional agriculture food: they are neither healthier nor less sick, but do spend more.
The distinction between some of the organic and conventional foods on these store-shelves is going to be superficial at best.
The answer to your specific question is no, there has not been a noticeable impact yet.
Anyways there are no difference when it comes to the plant itself.
- Most corporations (like Monsanto and most others) distort data and flat out lie to make more profit.
Many apple and pear varieties are the result of orchardists fiddling, grafting etc.
Roses - Modified.
Organic certification does not guarantee any of these things.
Doubly ironic because the original purpose of the certification boards was to prevent industrial growers from fraudulently labeling food as organic that really wasn’t grown organically.
Organic food certainly does not solve any health risks of food, although their marketing may imply otherwise, and that you could call being duped.
Several comprehensive reviews support the view that there are no nutritional or health benefits from organic products.
I lay them out in this piece: Organic vs conventional food The summary: It must be reasonable to assume, that should there be a stable measurable difference in the nutritional content of organic food, other reviews would be able to arrive at that conclusion independently of each other.
Instead, we have four reviews on similar lines – finding no nutritional or health benefits of organic food.
Then we have one study stating a different conclusion, but at a closer look demonstrating very little differences for a few nutrients, likely at a level of no consequence for our health or nutrient intake.
When you talk about fruits and vegetables, most of the genetic enhancement and modification is done to improve taste and in this case organic foods do not taste better.
As in, organic produce is at a higher baseline toxicity (seeds are bred that way).
That means that organics are on the magnitude of 1,000 to 1,000,000 times more toxic.
If difference is higher than 50%, consumers start to veer.
Can we afford Rs.200 for an organic tender coconut?
I would have bought 20 tender coconuts for the same price instead.
Only way is for the people to get used to the slightly higher price of the organic produce.. Also some people charge more than adequate for organic stuff because of the increasing demand and lower supply.. Hope things change for good..
Then again, organic sugar, pasta, potatoes, rice, wheat products and corn are also not good for you as they can cause you to become addicted to sugar in its many forms and can lead to over-eating and obesity.
Yet organic products typically cost 20 percent to 100 percent more than their conventionally produced equivalents.
Here are the top factors contributing to the high price of organic food 1.
Organic crops, however, are handled and shipped in smaller quantities since organic farms tend to produce less, and this results in higher costs.
There is no nutritional advantage to organic.
It is purely a marketing term.
It’s basically no better or worse, so when I say “100% overrated”, I mean that all of the purported advantages amount to nothing (and in most cases, are actually just plain myths).
An organic tomato grown in Florida is going to have poorer nutrient quality to a conventional tomato grown in California — that’s just down to soil.
Moreover, there are also studies that strongly indicate that the perceived flavor advantage of organic food is entirely down to expectations.
In blind tests, things come out basically even (again, assuming all else equal), but if people are told that one is organic and one is conventional, the one they were told is organic tends to win, even if the subjects of the study were actually misled.
Also, many people believe that organic food means no pesticides or herbicides.
That’s actually a myth.
In fact, all outbreaks of food-borne illness from vegetables sold in the U.S. in the last 30 years have been connected exclusively to organic vegetables.
Most of the time there is no added value to buying organic other than a nice happy feeling and a lighter wallet for you to carry around.
If you eat/buy organic to avoid industrial chemical and pesticide residues, then buying the foods that are on the current (2015) "Clean 15" list of commercially grown foods is an affordable option if you don't want to pay for organic.
(Organic does not mean that less harm is caused to the environment.
I have the time (no kids) and the financial resources to be able to do this, so I like to think of it as doing my part to help bring down the prices of fresh and organically grown food for everyone.
A way to make organic food cheap Organic food sometimes costs more.
Organic farming does not achieve the same yields as more modern farming techniques, so more land is used to grow the same amount of food.
Couple that with the odd definitions of organic in many countries and it often means that harsher, less targeted poisons (like Rotenone) are used for pest control, because they are more “natural”.
Over all my personal feelings are the cost is not worth it, but your opinion may vary.
Just don’t tell me they are healthier/more environmentally friendly, when they clearly are not.
I'm not sure what you mean by 'organic medicine,' but I guess you want headaches to go away and these things have worked for me.
The shelf life is shorter, meaning the product has a quicker expiration date.
Since it has a quicker expiration date, the item: A.
The differences are insignificant considering the wide array of agricultural practices you might define as "organic" or "conventional," and it's insignificant considering the many other unhealthy things we all do and eat.
Labels have very little to do with it.
Almost all vegetables and fruits in the super market are artificially ripened, even if its labeled organic.
But do not trust everything with "Organic" labelled on it !
This, however, is a poor way to truly determine nutrition or truly, even taste perception, as being told the food is organic makes people rate it higher .
A comment on that study: Until recently, nobody bothered to look at natural chemicals (such as organic pesticides), because it was assumed that they posed little risk.
But when the studies were done, the results were somewhat shocking: you find that about half of the natural chemicals studied are carcinogenic as well.
We assumed that “natural” chemicals were automatically better and safer than synthetic materials, and we were wrong.
Some organic-approved pesticides are slightly to moderately toxic.
In any case, organic-approved pesticides definitely leave residues on treated crops by the time they reach the consumer.
- Why You Can Feel Guilt-free Buying Non-Organic Produce Unfortunately, we're in the dark about organic pesticide residues.
The cost of buying organic is felt by your wallet and the environment, as organic farming at present unfortunately exerts a greater toll on our natural resources than conventional farming - it demands more land, and produces more nitrogen run-off for instance.
There is zero health or nutritional benefit to be gained by spending twice what you need to on organic.
First of all, there is a small amount of scientific evidence to show that organic food is better in quality than conventional food.
Scientific research conducted thus far on various organic food items has not been able to give strong evidence about the superiority of organic food over non-organic food.
There are many studies that prove that there is some pesticide and fertilizer contamination in non-organic food, and there are others which claim that organic food is not healthy because they contain harmful bacteria and viruses because of not using strong chemicals to protect against these toxic substances.
Scientific research has also not been able to conclusively prove that organic food is healthier than conventional food because there has been counter research too to prove conventional food is better than organic one.
Yes, organic food normally costs 20% to 100% more than conventional food.
Actually i see there’s a lot of hype created for organic vegetables , fruits and food stuff.
organic vegetables and fruits are beleived to be grown without the use of pesticides and fertilizers but i doubt how much is that possible?
But i personally prefer the conventional vegetables and fruits washed well and consumed.
Organic food can taste bland as it isn't enhanced by artificial additives.
Today's natural foods, of course, are much cleaner, but many are still sickened and occasionally killed by e.coli, listeria, and salmonella, largely on account of the manure fertilizer.
The number is far greater than those whose health might have been damaged by minute pesticide residues.
See Why Organic Food May Not Be Healthier For You for a summary.
But if you're more concerned about "bang for your buck," a balanced diet of conventional foods is an easier way to stay healthy.
There is also no demonstrated food safety or nutritional difference between organic milk and conventional milk.
Why is organic food produce more expensive than conventionally grown fruits, vegetables and grains?
Once opened it's no longer aseptic, so you have to refrigerate it, but it's so sterile that it will last longer than milk conventionally pasteurized.
That makes a relatively small dent in the price of organic milk, which is already a premium.
But if I have $50 for groceries and tomatoes are $1.99 and the organic tomatoes are $4.99, I'm probably going to go and buy the normal tomatoes.
Because we are not rich and I like to feed my family and not have them die.
Broad labels that have absolutely no meaning.
I know morons go on about how it tastes better or is “healthier”, and that none of this is backed up by the large number of studies.
It is very tough to say they are 100% organic.
There is also the notion that food without “chemicals” is pure, when there are vegetables that can kill or harm people that have been bred conventionally.
Which ironically, is the same pesticide used in organic produce.
Organic foods may cost less to produce, but that is not a significant reason for the higher price.
(I use the quotes because it a silly term) It's expensive and no more nutritious than conventionally grown foods, though it does contain much lower levels of pesticide and herbicides, which I suspect one does not want to ingest a lot of.
I think organic food is more expensive per unit to produce because the pesticides and herbicides used in modern farming (along with the mechanization) allow for more units to be produced per allotted space.
Another aspect is there is some degree of over pricing because people perceive greater value in organic food, and they are willing to pay for it.
As owner of a business selling natural and organic products, I know I have competitors pricing products much higher than their costs of production.
Here's the deal: organic food is not lower in "toxins".
From first hand experience, I can tell you that organic vegetables are more likely to have pest damage.
The first time I bought organic, I bought a zucchini, and sliced it in half right through a worm that had apparently been living inside it.
People have a common perception that organic vegetables are larger and healthier, but this is due to selection bias.
I regularly attend one of the largest farmer-only farmer's markets in the US, and the organic crops are typically pitiful compared to the commercially fertilized ones.
The real argument for eating organic food is that it is an alternative to a food system that is unsustainable and damaging to ecosystems, farm workers, fresh water, and pretty much all of the resources we require to survive.
As such anything labeled as organic in the grocery store is more expensive than it should be.
So where it is easy to have a ship full of corn moving to markets, it would seem to me that organic fruit and vegetables are more vulnerable to damage in transit.
In those cases, aim not for organic but naturally raised.
Scott Strough's answer to Why is organic food (basically organic vegitables and fruits) in USA much more expensive than any other country?
It's often worse for the environment.
Here in the U.S. much of our organic produce is shipped to us from other parts of the world, offsetting much of the benefit of reducing chemical run off.
So if the water used to irrigate the crops is highly contaminated industrial wastewater full of pollutants and heavy metals, you can still claim the product is organic.
Wow sounds healthy but practically is expensive for middle class you can compare the price of organic food products.
Plenty of natural food sources have dangerous enzymes, acids and chemicals which can be deadly or harmful if not used properly or if not used in moderation.
The source of the chemical is not any guarantee as to the overall safety of the chemical.
Plenty of natural and organic foods we eat every day have potentially harmful ingredients in varying quantities.
Just take your geiger counter to the spice aisle *1 or the fruit aisles and you will see.
Plenty of certified organic ingredients can be harmful in large and small doses.
Plenty of certified organic pesticides will kill a human as easily as kill a bug.
Are you going to eliminate organic crops from your diet because of their pesticide residues?
Based on available science, that actually seems like the safest way to go, and I try to avoid organic produce when shopping.
From the Scientific American Why does organic milk last so much longer than regular milk?
Actually, no, I don't.
At least, I do not have a strong preference for organic food.
The washing will take care of the traces of pesticide remaining.
While poisoning from pesticides is extremely unlikely, bacterial or parasitic contamination of our food supply is relatively common.
All it takes is one episode of food poisoning or one class in parasitology and anyone who thinks about it will be very shy of ordering raw oysters, sashimi, seared tuna, or a rare steak.
That goes for both conventional and organic fruit -- the organic stuff doesn't have as much sprayed on it, but it does have more exposure to illness-causing contaminants like e. coli.
And all grocery store fruit is pawed through all day by produce clerks and other shoppers.
And ripe organic fruit spoils in days rather than weeks.
On one hand, this creates a much greater opportunity for transmission of food-borne illness.
(This risk seems to offset any possible health gains from organic food.)
Anyway, studies have shown that organic foods offer little/no health benefit over the same conventional produce.
That's a pretty good sign that they don't contain more nutrients.
I mean, they could, but it would have to be a minuscule improvement below the detection threshold of scientific studies.
And if the difference is too small to be statistically detectable, I really don't think we should worry too much about it.
It's not fruit, but organic milk lacks some antibiotics and hormones that have been linked to health effects in humans.
In general , there isn't much benefit to organic food.
Unfortunately, at this point most food labeled organic is done so primarily as a marketing strategy, as the trendiness of organic food has been largely co-opted by business interests and Big Ag.
Most organic food sold in large retail outlets is grown very similarly to the conventional alternatives, with negligible differences concerning the ecological or social impacts, and questionable health gains to the consumer (the Internet is full of studies both professing and denying the healthfulness of organic over conventional.
TL/DR: There are no good reasons to believe that eating organic has any meaningful benefits for your heath or the environment when compared to conventional agriculture.
Though organic produce typically has slightly higher mineral and vitamin contents than conventionally grown produce, the diffence is slight and can be compensated for by eating slightly more fruit, which you can afford more easily by not buy organic.
Daniel's answer says that organic produce contains less heavy metals, but without some legitimate sources to back that claim, I'd assume that heavy metal concentrations would be similar.
Organic food is not necessarily healthier than non GM food.
However, organic food alone is often less healthy than its processed counterpart.
Organic food is not healthier: Stanford U.
Why Organic Food May Not Be Healthier For You However, in many, many cases, organic food is going to have a worse impact on the environment.
TL;DR: spend the money on directly helping the environment instead of buying organic.
Except on the basis of cost, for those who can't afford to pay a premium for certified organic goods.
Another perspective: there's no such thing as organic wine.
If you're committed to consuming organic products, there are a good many quite tasty wines made from organic grapes, although I would steer you clear of domestic products and brands that are designed expressly to take advantage or your predilections and beliefs.
A lot of biodynamic agriculture is superstition.
They are not pesticide and chemical free, they are grown with “organic approved” pesticides and chemicals, which is code for “untested”.
The problem with the term organic is that it is ambiguous.
For example, the number of pesticides allowed in the US is much larger and includes some synthetic pesticides.
Huge injected chicken is typically not the most expensive, but organic is.
Organic fruit will almost always have blemishes, spots, and sometimes bruises.
Restaurants and grocers will convince Americans to spend more on their produce, and consumers get the satisfaction of both the actual and imagined benefits of eating organically.
Because people are easily fooled into believing stuff that isn’t true.
Unless it is backed up by hard science, I ain’t buying it.
Organic foods are supposedly better for you, but this is misleading.
Organic food no more nutritious than conventionally grown food - Harvard Health Blog I am not going to spend three times as much money for a bunch of fruit or veggies just because someone smacked an ‘organic’ label on it.
Organic might be healthier, but there is no hard and fast proof they they are.
I don’t buy organic foods for the same reason I don’t go to a chiropractor.
Neither one of them has proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that what they say is true actually is true.
(I know a bunch of people will want to jump my ass for this answer, but I follow science, not fads).
Organic doesn't "help the environment".
If you take an organic carrot that was picked and packed and stored in the same way as a non-organic carrot, which is generally going to be the case for all food found in the grocery store, you will not likely discern a difference.
Unfortunately, "Organic" has been co-opted as a marketing term by large corporations and their industrialized production, and so that means that the drop in nutrient content applies to organic and "conventional" alike.
It's conclusion was that "the global claim that “organic food tastes better” is not valid, and each product type should be treated separately before a claim can be made."
Furthermore, blind taste tests on tomatoes have found them to taste worse if organically grown, and potato and broccoli to be indistinguishable in taste quality ( Organic food less tasty than normal, watchdog says ).
The reason you think they are "so delicious" is quite possibly due to the halo effect, which those working in marketing understand very well.
And a study has been done into that, too: ( You taste what you see: Do organic labels bias taste perceptions?
I hope organic food becomes cheaper and more easily accessible to everyone and the chemicals and pesticides used for growing what's being called "food" someday are stopped.
And in fact it has been proven time and again that many organic foods are not actually better for you as the supposed natural ways of producing can also sometimes aha negative side affects, damage the dna, etc.
Very few organic foods exist in their native state as they have been grafted and recommend for eons.
And, even though I'll only eat organic beef, I don't think it's as tasty as the commercial beef because grass-fed cattle graze, and because of that are leaner with less marbling in their muscles.
There is no difference in normal eggs and so called packaged organic eggs.
It is just the packaging and with fancy marketing tag.
It is also costly when compared to loose eggs .
People find organic products way more costly than the normal ones.
If you can sell them at normal rates customer response will be good.
It is very easy to show that organic food is smaller, takes up more land to produce, uses a lot more pesticides and has way less vitamins and minerals, all you have to look at is the ingredients, I have seen organic posters even claim that organic foods contain vitamins that it does not contain at all and you can see it when you look at the ingredients on the product.
Organic is worse for the environment, and has no nutritional advantage.
The 'local and organic' tag needs to be dropped if we need to head in the right direction.
Organic rules that prohibit certain food preservatives can therefore make organic food less healthy.
Of course, there may be cases where buying certified organic is, on balance, more environmentally destructive because of food miles and other energy-related issues.
If you're choosing between a non-organic product with low food miles and an organic product with high food miles, organic might be a worse choice.
You may have to shell out a bit more, but at least you can breath easy on the much higher hospital bills that might have been the case.
I always go for BC or New Zealand apples (I live in Vancouver), without bothering about organic or not except as it affects the price.
There are good reasons for those bans: those particular pesticides are not safe for humans and also damage the environment, especially bees.
But not to eat it, I think) are also safe for humans and bees and there’s no point in paying extra for organic ones.
It is not necessary to pay the extra money for organic.
Other ingredients would probably be toxic chemicals followed by preservatives and other ingredients that humans should not be consuming.
My wife damn near died from eating organic carrots.
E coli and other dangerous bacteria thrive in rich organic matter that has not been composted properly.
Wash all produce carefully, especially if it is organic.
In the case of root vegetables like carrots, it may even make sense to cook them, since the bacteria can penetrate into the interior.
Watermelon and bananas have such a thick skin, don’t bother with organic.
“Organic” foods are neither more healthy nor safer than conventionally produced food items.
Numerous studies have attempted to find whether organic vegetables and fruits offer any substantive advantage or benefit, but almost all have failed.
Further, ready-to-eat plants such as lettuce, green onion, are more vulnerable to contamination by animal waste and the bacteria it contains (especially E. coli which can survive in soil).
In fact, some research has even shown higher rates of microbial contamination on organic foods than conventionally produced foods.
But A recent study examined that organic food is not nutritious.
Some organic products may still be high in sugar, salt,fat or calories.
But it's true that organic food is expensive.
Organic foods cost more for one or more of 4 reasons.
The certified organic farmer must charge a higher price for the exact same product that the organic farmer is selling at a lower cost.
Side stepping the issue of defining organic for the moment, take it or leave it, my opinion is: organic produce CAN be grown for a little less than what it is sold for today.
Organic foods cost more for one or more of 3 reasons.
Often the organic product has less nutrients, less vitamins and is smaller.
The idea that "organic" food doesn't have pesticides is a complete myth.
They use just as much, sometimes more.
Sometimes they're of higher toxicity.
It's just that they have to come from an arbitrary list of "natural" pesticides.
Here’s an example where pollution could increase in an organic system: Organic corn requires more intensive tillage to control weeds.
Organic produce still uses pesticides.
There is no health evidence linking organic to higher nutrition value.
A 2012 meta-analysis (a study examining lots of other studies to make an overall conclusion) found zero benefits to eating organic, for example.
There are three reasons for this that I can see; A) Certified Organic produce is typically more expensive.
C) The USDA slaps an organic label on anything that has 95% organic ingredients, a "made with organic" label on anything that has 70% organic ingredients, and anything that has any one of thousands of non-organically produced ingredients that are "exceptions", but may be expensive.
Regular milk is just as healthy, or organic milk just as unhealthy as conventional milk depending on how you feel about dairy.
Plus, food poisoning is always more likely if you eat organic, especially "raw milk," which is almost up there with cigarettes as a poison marketed by its lobby as healthy.
Page on Foodsafetynews Summary: Organic is expensive, probably better for the cows, and potentially better for the environment, but is not better for you.
If you feel paying extra for the same product is worth it, do so, but it's no different from buying an expensive brand name when a generic product is just as good.
Taking budget and availability into consideration, I can't go 100% organic.
yes, organic fruits are less tastier than non-organic fruits.
Honestly I read about a lot of so called Organic products being coloured and altered just to seem organic, like organic brown rice, is supposedly just coloured.
Organic milk brands are very few and only 2 or 3 are really trustworthy.
Fruit just doesn't seem to have the same supply levels but it's getting better.
At present it would be very difficult to find certified organic vegetables in the city.
Organic in general hasn't really caught on too much down here.
I live in Baja California and I can tell you that it's small.
So, if you're planning on selling anything organic, make it in area where there's lots of retired gringos who have money (San Miguel de Allende is an example).
I just read a study today of blood levels of synthetic pesticides in children where they were tested on a conventional diet, then switched to organic.
Their levels dropped by half.
Generally speaking, I avoid even organic products from China, as there are serious questions about their practices and the level of pollutants in their soil, air and water.
A product can be labelled organic even if the water used to grow it is highly toxic, for instance.
They consist of materials which are non synthetic.
Use term synthetic or non synthetic.
Most foods are organic, when it comes right down to it.
For instance, cheap hot dogs and lunch meat are organic.
Maybe it's not the parts you would prefer to eat of an animal, and perhaps they aren't the best choices for quality meat, but it all comes from animals.
And let's examine potato chips; they're organic, too.
They come from real potatoes.
They may get fried within an inch of their lives and coated in salt, but they all came from real potatoes.
Organic merely means it came from a living organism, as opposed to being synthesized in a lab with barrels of chemicals from duPont.
It is heavily influenced by marketing strategy; there is no evidence that suggests it is healthier.
But if there's anybody being duped it's people spending double on organic for no good reason.
There is no sufficient evidence in medical literature to support claims that organic food is safer or healthier than conventional food.
Claims that organic food tastes better are generally not supported by evidence
I worked in a grocery store produce department for years, and the organic apples always went bad at the drop of a hat.
There is very little, or perhaps no reason to spend the exorbitant money to buy milk labelled “organic.” Analysis of the milk will reveal there is virtually no difference that is significant enough to be measured in any meaningful way.
Put your money to work in better ways than organic foods.
However according to the USDA there's no nutritional difference.
If fruit is picked from small groves that do not use pesticides, you are usually pretty safe regardless of labeling.
The food grown with the certified organic label -is- grown with pesticides for one (herbicides are a type of pesticide).
This does not, however, make them safer for the consumer or the environment.
These pesticides are less effective than synthetic pesticides, and often need to be used in larger quantities in order to be effective.
Chemophobia is a terrible thing) There is no good evidence that organic is more nutritious than conventionally grown counterparts.
Organic food does not eliminate toxins from the body.
There is no significant difference in nutrition between organic and conventional.
It is also generally much more expensive.
So it’s bad for economy, and a wash on health.
Organic is a marketing term.
See Boycott the butterfly, and stop buying organic.
These and other studies go a long way to show the benefits of organic protein powder over non-organic protein powder.
In the end, you will never 100% know whether something is actually organic (humans have the unfortunate habit of lying to benefit themselves), you can just arm yourself with as much knowledge as possible so you can make educated guesses.
This is just a loaded marketing term, which in reality stands for more expensive food of lesser quality.
They have too much money to spend on food.
Since Organic is more of a political and sales term than a technical one, it likely boils down to if the restaurant advertises this or not.
Since organic ingredients are more expensive, restaurants hope to make back their investment by communicating the choices they've made.
That said, at Ambronite, we’ve thought about this, but have realised we get the same quality, and in some cases, better quality ingredients without the organic stamp.
No, there is no noticeable difference in taste or health from organic food.
Much more doubtful if "organic" have real health benefits.
Organic food itself does not have a significant positive impact on the environment.
Most of the grocers' organic products do not come from sustainable systems, but they surely are produced intensively and are legally labeled "organic".
By and large, "organic" produce is no different than conventionally grown produce, and the methods are no more sustainable.
It seems self-defeating to preserve organic food with inorganic preservative agents, so shelf-life is reduced while the cost of storage/transport is increased due to spoilage.
Proponents of organic food argue that it's tastier and healthier, so that is an oppertunity to charge an additional premium.
I understand you want organically-grown foodstuffs to be healthier than foodstuffs grown by the usual suspects.
It more healthy.now a days the demand is more So it brcomes more costly
The natural manure like compost and cow dung etc collection and preparation takes lot of time and effort, hence organic food is costly.
Thus far these have included toxic chemicals like rotenone, pyrethrin and copper sulfate.
Some call these natural but remember, at its base, we all live in a chemical world and dose makes the poison.
There are no health benefits to consuming "organic" food.
Organic is not worth the cost.
Organic food is disgusting, I have written about it here: Josh Manson's answer to What do you think about people who buy and eat only organic food?
I don't buy organic if conventional is available.
Some studies have shown that the antioxidant content in organically grown fruits and vegetables may be slightly higher.
There is zero nutritional advantage to "organic" foods.
They just cost more.
There's no guarantee that "organic" means they do that well, either.
The only difference between organic beans and conventional beans (I hate the term "non organic"- beans are organic to start) is that the former will make a bigger dent in your pocketbook than the latter.
Also, you might feel a smug sense of superiority when buying the former.
Industrial organic food isn't really very natural.
It's grown in monocultures and subjected to a lot of chemicals that strike me as not much more "natural" than the synthetic versions.
And they're usually using seed stocks that have been bred (conventionally) for durability rather than flavor.
However, organic doesn't mean it's better for you, provides more nutrients, or is more healthy.
the Swedish Environmental Research Institute recently did a study and found that in Organic eggs there is more dixine and heavy metals than in normal eggs… Who likes organics reads only the positives never negatives.
in Italy found organic food radioactive.
No pesticides but were grown in areas with a high level of radioactivity.
Well you can loose weight by eating organic because you are more likely to contract a food borne illnesses from organics than you are from normal food.
If you just toss organic foods into your shopping cart willy-nilly, you’re in for some sticker shock when you get to the checkout.
There has been no large, replicable studies that have shown any difference in safety between organic and nob-organic fruit.
If you want to consider pesticides a danger despite the majority of evidence pointing against it, then know that organic foods are much more dangerous.
Organic food is bit expensive in the market.
Buying from the market is little expensive.
Organic eggs will always be costlier than those produced by use of hormone injection in chicken.
This is not to say that ‘natural’ dog food is all bad, but only to suggest that its’ contents are not all pure.
Some, if not most of natural pet food will contain added ingredients that are not entirely wholesome.
Organic pesticides are just as toxic as regular ones.
Be aware of natural toxins.
Some vegetables produce toxins to fight the insects which are similar to the pesticides which are sprayed onto veges to control insects.
If the organic grower is selecting for vegetables that are resistant to insects they will contain a higher proportions of these toxins which are also harmful to us.
(lower consumption of fruit and vegetables due to higher cost of organic production, which means they are less affordable, results in higher cancer rates) and the deaths from the increased cancer rates was much higher.
But fruits where you do not eat the skin, foods with peels, such as bananas, oranges, kiwi, avocado, onions, are not worth the extra money for organic.
And yes, some people are concerned about residual pesticides, but that's another issue.
There is nothing about organic foods that prevents E. coli or salmonella from being transported on those foods.
Pesticides don't either, of course.
From what i can find, there's no known health benefit from consuming organic produce instead of conventional produce: Organic food consumption and the incidence of cancer in a large prospective study of women in the United Kingdom Organic Food: Buying More Safety or Just Peace of Mind?
Lastly, consider that organic food has its own set of carcinogenic concerns.
There's no reason to think that organic foods are necessarily safer.
It must be reasonable to assume, that should there be a stable measurable difference in the nutritional content of organic food, different reviews would be able to arrive at that conclusion independently of each other.
Instead, we so far have four reviews on similar lines – finding no nutritional or health benefits of organic food.
There have been recalls and food borne illness outbreaks associated with organic products.
Now since business is all about supply and demand, before people knew about the benefits of organic foods, people only cared about shape, size, color, and price.
Today big companies want to get in the organic business because we are demanding it but are also trying to dilute organic standards.
There is no nutritional advantage to buying organic.
Organic apples are absolutely NOT “healthier”, whatever that means.
They’re just apples, just like regular apples, except a lot more expensive.
“Organic” is a marketing term, and organic fruits and vegetables are grown with large amounts of pesticides, fungicides, and other “chemicals”.
It’s just that these are “organic approved” chemicals, which means they’re pretty much the same as any other chemicals, or else they wouldn’t be used.
And they’re more expensive.
The term is 100% marketing hype.
Another uniqueness of this food is It is ORGANIC FOOD by default Because no body cultivate commercially this food item.
I never seek organic because there's no reason to.
It's just a marketing gimmick.
I know that there are fake organic products out there.
Generally there is precious little, if any, evidence for health benefits associated with either organic or locally sourced food.
In fact, I avoid organic on principle because it is largely a scam.
A carrot is a carrot when it comes from the same farm or a similar local, organic farm.
Even if the beans are certified organic, they can’t be labeled as such once they go into a roaster that has been used for non-certified beans.
I have a phd in Agricultute and Biology- I actively try to buy non-organic foods as a) there are no benefits or taste differences, b) I realize organics are a marketing differentiated business (albeit a big business) and c) it's not more sustainable.
It says organic, but is that something to rely on?
Some food products are spuriously labelled, 'organic' which is according to someone's opinion could be just home-grown in a kitchen garden or by someone who does not use pesticides on the actual food itself but use pesticides directly or indirectly in the garden or that their neighbours do.
First, I hate labels and Organic is losing its appeal to me especially when I can read that so many "things" are allowed in the Organic process.
Let me reply to the questions as follows: - There is a perception that people are starting to make their own organic products at home, but from experience, I find that they are merely makeing the selfie version of home-medication - who never tried to appease a sore throat with honey and lime?
It is a marketing gimmick.
Empirically, there is no evidence that suggests organic foods are any healthier than other foods.
That's as absurd as being sure that a taste difference IS because of being organic, without testing.
The organic I've tried tastes exactly the same.
It's just more expensive.
There are several naturally derived pesticides permitted for organic food production such as pyrethrum (derived from flowers) Although produced from natural materials these pesticides are still not totally risk free and they may also affect the taste of the food.
There's a bigger price..like fresh seafood...and there is a noticeable difference.
Ref: 'You Are Not So Smart': Why We Can't Tell Good Wine From Bad In short: There is no evidence that organic food tastes better than non-organic ones.
As far as I can tell, organic eggs may taste better than "industrially-produced" eggs, but in my experience and to my taste, NOT better than any unspecified free-range or non-factory eggs.
But that is not a thing that makes organic fruit taste better than non-organic fruit as it is possible to obtain the same result with both.
Organic is a marketing term, and there is no nutritional advantage to organic food.
There is no taste difference, and there is no health difference.
There is no advantage at all to "organic" food .
"Organic" growing forbids using any refined minerals, so you are eating potentially toxic impurities along with the minerals.
Take "green manure"- it's the cause of multiple E. coli outbreaks in organic produce in recent years.
Not only are pesticides allowed, but some of the "organic" pesticides are much more toxic than standard pesticides.
I don’t think any farmer (conventional or organic) wants pollute the environment with poisons, but I wouldn’t assume all organic food is pesticide free.
It's a shame that organic food is not tested for permitted "organic" pesticides due to the extra expense involved.
I have heard organic food products are expensive.
Since organic products is more expensive than conventional kinds.
They keep telling me that it could be the same unorganic stuff sold at a higher price cz it's labelled as ORGANIC.
Do you have a way of actually convincing someone that you actually supply real organic produce.
Wow and Organic Bananas are like the most worthless thing to get "organically" because of their thick peel.
The organic farmer raising the meat -- as well as those involved in the chain between grower and customer -- will have more money to spend on food, if they wish.
Other than that, there's no health benefit to the consumer.
To achieve the standard profit margins for a fast food restaurant, an organic fast food restaurant would have to be around 25% more expensive.
I still think it's just a way to get food that costs more.
Less organic food is produced, so less of it is available, so the price is higher.
It's more expensive, and I see no benefit.
If there is some small upside to avoiding a little bit of pesticide for health reasons, it's likely too small to notice given the massive number of chemicals that enter the body from car exhaust, lotions, off-gassing of polymers, plasticizers etc.
The main thing to know is that there is no nutritional or health difference between "organic", GMO, and conventional foods.
The only significant difference is that "organic" is, on average, about twice as expensive.
Ultimately, if you have the money, you should buy all your veggies organic.
Meat as well, but that is far more expensive.
Zero benefit, extra cost.
And "organic" uses plenty of pesticides.
Some of them rather nasty.
However, we, the consumers, count only the “internal price”, which is the price we pay directly.
That's the reason behind these not finding a market, besides the fact that these are pricey.
There is zero nutritional advantage to buying organic.
It’s just more expensive.
If I could afford it I would probably buy all veggies and fruits organic buy for now I just avoid some fruits and veggies that can't get organic or substitute them with something less toxic: <URL>" Cheers ;-)
Luckily for me at least the hit on the wallet has diminished somewhat so I usually buy organic food when I can get it.
In some places the prices for organic products can be more than 200% of the nonorganic product prices.
It's sad that you buy into the marketing scheme of a conglomerate just desperate to have you pay three times as much for the same product, but that's what you're doing.
Maybe because the idea that "organic" food has no pesticides is complete rubbish.
They use plenty of pesticides, often more toxic than conventional crops.
So many people think "organic" means "no pesticides" that it's sad.
They've all been deceived.
There appears to me to be a tendency to steer clear of the subject of pesticide residues and only mention nutritional content, rather than engage with the topic and try to argue that organic food contains equal or more pesticide residues as conventional, as you seem to be saying.
In America, at least, they use lots of them, some of which are more toxic than "conventional".
And if that still matters to you, then why do you not object to the chemicals on the list of approved organic pesticides?
Too much chemical products (organic chemical products are still chemical products...), too little care, bad practices as to when you ship them, how you keep them from spoiling... On the other side, my grandfather used to take care of his garden.
Organic labeling does not denote no pesticide or herbicide.
It's your personal choice, I wouldn't recommend going organic for you though, since the growing of organic vegetables do rely on fertilizers coming from natural sources (i.e.
Many people may disagree with this, but organic foods isn't a necessary.
Even organic foods aren't 100% pure of chemicals.
Organic fruits are, probably, coated with pesticides too - organic ones or non-organic, but in a relatively small amount.
You might eat some bugs, since no pesticide is used...
This happened to me with some organic broccoli a few years back.
Yuck, no thank you.
Effect of milk type and processing on iodine concentration of organic and conventional winter milk at retail: Implications for nutrition .
It wouldn't be a big surprise to me if this were true, since organic agriculture limits nutrient inputs.
But since there's no nutritional advantage to organic, why buy it?
There's a lot of confusing information about organic food.
There are sources that say organic carrots are not statistically different from conventionally grown ones: that in measures of sugar, fiber, nutrients, they are the same.
Little evidence of health benefits from organic foods, Stanford study finds
Organic food is not more nutritious.
Systematic review finds no difference in nutritional value of organic vs. conventional foods
And if that meat is organic you will have the same nutritional benefits, no difference between organic and conventional meat.
I believe they allow organic meats to have been fed GMO feedstock, however.
Also, there is no proof that organic food is any better for you.
If you do care about your health don't push your luck on organic peanut butter!
Even I fell for it last week by choosing an organic soy yogurt only to realise that it had half of my daily sugar intake in one small pot!!!
On top of that, certain health bars claim 'organic' but are filled to the brim with 'organic' cane sugar, 'organic thickeners', 'organic wheat syrup' etc.....most contain more than your daily sugar needs in one massive hit.
Try some actual scientists: No Health Benefits from Organic Food
Compared to non-organic, exactly zero.
And many people, up until 150 years ago, died of diseases exacerbated by malnutrition- so "organic" wasn't necessarily helping matters.
It's ALL "organic".
Never heard of an "inorganic" cow, pug, radish, soybean.
If I were a robot, I would eat all the inorganic shit I could (with a special attraction to, well, magnets).
Organic is disgusting.
Anyone who trusts anything labeled as organic is either misinformed, or they just like the taste of feces.
I wouldn't want to eat the liver of an organically raised animal any more than that of another animal.
I haven’t bought in to the organic veggies yet.
