Organic certification is pretty much worthless.
The regulatory label "organic" is pretty much worthless at that scale.
I think people think that organic meat is automatically humanely raised meat.
To be fair I can understand why they think that way, with the packaging showing pigs, frisking amoungst the daisies.
For example, recently it came out that hen's in certain types of 'free range' enviroments are actually worse off than battery hens.
They are packed into sheds just within the legal minimum to be called free range, it is not enough room for them to roam healthily and they become stressed and attack one another.
People generally don’t buy Organic Food because of two reasons: High Cost Trust for the Organic Brand for which high price is paid.
It’s getting to a point where growing your own is the best option.
Everything on the planet is organic - even man made things are compiled from organic elements.
Hey, the bestest apple in the world still has levels of Arsenic in it.
:( But growing your own also has issues - who own the seeds….
Who the hell knows any more.
It's really expensive.
As to your question, no, there are not significant difference in the environmental impacts of typical organic foods versus most conventional foods, or most GM foods.
They are all often both equally destructive of soil, and all can equally end up with excess amounts of harmful chemicals accumulating in the environment (whether “organic” or not).
With organic production, it is possible a similar effect could occur, though differing practices might limit the severity as well.
Organic food is largely a marketing scam.
There is decent evidence to suggest it is no better for your health and actually worse for the environment.
Likewise, places like Whole foods benifit greatly by misleading consumers into thinking their produce is somehow safer and better for the environment and thus can charge MUCH higher prices for foods that are basically identical.
I basically see organic labels and non-GMO labels as a way to do this.
Overall on the the biggest problems I have with the 'Organic' label though is that it's misleading.
I have no issue with environmentally friendlier agricultural practices, I just argue that the USDA organic label really doesn't represent those.
The foods are proven no more safe and overall are likely worse for the environment.
I truly believe that the majority of "organic" produce sold in super markets is all about marketing and is misleading to the consumers.
I just want you to know I am not attacking your point on better farming practices, but just specifically the idea that organic food you buy at the super market is better than conventional.
What I'm saying is that it really doesn't matter what scale of organic farming we're talking cows are likely to be eating at least some corn.
Its considerably more profitable to grow than many other crops even if under organic management you can only grow it in the rotation every 2-4 years on a field at best.
Can you plant a pasture mix that combines all those nutrients important for cow's microbes that would be a complete feed needing no supplemental corn?
Yes, but it's not always the easiest thing to do for a host of reasons.
(or, at least, they have been very good at reinforcing this belief in me via their in-store marketing efforts) What's more, I also perceive that purchasing products from a big company like Whole Foods is potentially less risky from a health standpoint than going to a local farmer's market...
They can also just as dangerous , and they can sometimes be much, much worse !
Last, several cases exist where organic pesticides are worse than synthetics.
It is corrosive, can cause permanent eye damage, causes skin sensitization, and is FATAL if swallowed or absorbed through the skin.
For the farmer, it means they must use goggles and protective clothing when using the organic herbicide, but can use roundup naked if they so choose.
Evidence shows that people who eat organic food have no health benefits compared to conventional agriculture food: they are neither healthier nor less sick, but do spend more.
There are several problems with organic standards and certification.
First The Bad News 1.
In many cases organic certification represents a minimum standard that farmers (and big-agriculture companies) use as a checklist in order to put an official stamp on their product and then command a higher price for food that isn't much different to conventional produce.
Their products meet the letter of the law but not the spirit of it.
The problem was that they were a massive feedlot operation and were only barely meeting minimum standards to be certified.
* Their cows had the absolute minimum access to pasture and were just being shoveled massive piles of organic corn feed rather than conventional corn feed.
If you live in the USA you can walk in to a Sam's Club or a Wal-Mart and see huge tubs of store-brand, organic produce that's often farmed in China on massive farms that spray organic fertilizers, use organic certified pesticides, and pay low wages that would be illegal in the USA.
The distinction between some of the organic and conventional foods on these store-shelves is going to be superficial at best.
Behind the scenes there is constant jockeying by pesticide and fertilizer companies to get their products listed as certified organic.
There are pesticides that you can spray on your crops in the USA and still get your certified label that would cause you to lose your certification in Australia and vice versa.
The answer to your specific question is no, there has not been a noticeable impact yet.
I don't see it, for the simple reason that most people are still accepting marketing initiatives as their primary source of nutrition education.
Marketing exists to make money for shareholders, not to benefit people.
For this reason, consumers accept that a product is "organic", "natural" and so forth because a label says so, without regard for what those terms mean in the legal context, in the context of the FDA and USDA, or what *other* ingredients are in the box.
Anyways there are no difference when it comes to the plant itself.
"Organic" is of course a marketing term, as mentioned by Craig.
Organic is a concept, hijacked to increase prices and gain marketing advantage.
- Most corporations (like Monsanto and most others) distort data and flat out lie to make more profit.
Claims are to be taken with a bag of salt.
Some even invent their own certifier to con you with a shiny logo (Supermarket own brands are prone to this).
As Johnathan Law says, cross pollination is also a major issue.
Many apple and pear varieties are the result of orchardists fiddling, grafting etc.
Roses - Modified.
When the caveman only had organic food he lived a shorter life - Perhaps some chemicals and GMO's make us live longer?
Organic certification does not guarantee any of these things.
Doubly ironic because the original purpose of the certification boards was to prevent industrial growers from fraudulently labeling food as organic that really wasn’t grown organically.
Before I go into subject, let me tell you Agri Gold financial scam in AP, India Agri gold collects one time deposit or recurring deposits and issue a document that they will register a piece of land after some specified time or money will be returned with interest.
Same is happening in organic stores Organic stores in India do not source their items locally.
If you are in AP, they source it from Kerala, Uttarakhand etc Objective is to confuse consumer with fantastic organic labels.
None of the natural farmers around the city supply to these organic stores because price offered is less than 30% of consumer price.
This is the reason for not increasing of natural farmers number even though demand of organic food increasing at high rate Unless you know the source of food, its difficult to say based on our five senses as modern technology invented some chemical to trick these five senses.
Page on jacobinmag.com What comes to being duped by conventional food - we are not 'duped' what comes to health benefits of food, although this is a popular narrative told by many, often people who want to sell you some kind of an alternative product.
Organic food certainly does not solve any health risks of food, although their marketing may imply otherwise, and that you could call being duped.
Several comprehensive reviews support the view that there are no nutritional or health benefits from organic products.
I lay them out in this piece: Organic vs conventional food The summary: It must be reasonable to assume, that should there be a stable measurable difference in the nutritional content of organic food, other reviews would be able to arrive at that conclusion independently of each other.
Instead, we have four reviews on similar lines – finding no nutritional or health benefits of organic food.
Then we have one study stating a different conclusion, but at a closer look demonstrating very little differences for a few nutrients, likely at a level of no consequence for our health or nutrient intake.
When you talk about fruits and vegetables, most of the genetic enhancement and modification is done to improve taste and in this case organic foods do not taste better.
As in, organic produce is at a higher baseline toxicity (seeds are bred that way).
That means that organics are on the magnitude of 1,000 to 1,000,000 times more toxic.
I don't think there is enough nutrient-rich top soil required for organic farming in existing pieces of agricultural land.
The main limitation so far is that, overall, organic yields have been considerably lower than conventional yields .
Which means, we will have to destroy more fertile land (e.g., forests) to increase the output of organic food to match conventionally-grown food.
Comparing the yields of organic and conventional agriculture In order to grow organic food with high yields, farmers have to follow best agricultural management practices to make efficient use of local natural resources.
That requires a lot more smart planning compared to conventional farming.
I don't think farmers all over the world have the education, training, or motivation to do that kind of planning.
Will Organic Food Fail to Feed the World?
"Organic farming is a very knowledge-intensive farming system," Seufert notes.
Feeding everyone on this planet (i.e.,food security) is entirely different challenge though.
Can organic farmers produce enough food for everybody?
More thoughts about this question here Can Organic Farming Feed Us All?
Fresh foods are basically non-storable.
If difference is higher than 50%, consumers start to veer.
For annual stuff you need 200–400% gross to make it worthwhile waiting and tieing land for 12 months to grow them.
Can we afford Rs.200 for an organic tender coconut?
I would have bought 20 tender coconuts for the same price instead.
But as of now it's impossible to sell organic products at lower costs.
Coz the production cost also is more and the time it takes for pure breeds to grow fully takes more time compared to GMOs.
Only way is for the people to get used to the slightly higher price of the organic produce.. Also some people charge more than adequate for organic stuff because of the increasing demand and lower supply.. Hope things change for good..
Because organic food production is an inefficient way of cultivating crops because it yields pathetic outputs in relation to the amount of inputs (labor, land, ect) gone into it.
Particularly the big packaged food industry still wants to call the packaged food products with chemical preservatives as Organic.
Ecocert are *not*, and many products certified by Ecocert have been shown to contain various herbicides and pesticides.
Organic whole foods certainly won't do the harm processed foods with lots of chemicals and preservatives and growth hormones and antibiotics do to you.
Then again, organic sugar, pasta, potatoes, rice, wheat products and corn are also not good for you as they can cause you to become addicted to sugar in its many forms and can lead to over-eating and obesity.
Yet organic products typically cost 20 percent to 100 percent more than their conventionally produced equivalents.
Here are the top factors contributing to the high price of organic food 1.
Demand overwhelms supply Organic farmland only accounts for 0.9 percent of total worldwide farmland, and organic farms tend to produce less than conventional farms.
Higher cost of fertilizer for organic crops Sewage sludge and chemical fertilizers might not be something you want in your food, but conventional farmers use them because they don’t cost much and are cheap to transport.
Organic farmers eschew these inexpensive solutions in order to keep their crops natural and instead use compost and animal manure, which is more expensive to ship.
Organic crops, however, are handled and shipped in smaller quantities since organic farms tend to produce less, and this results in higher costs.
Additionally, organic farms are usually located farther from major cities, increasing the shipping cost.
Since organic farmers don’t use these, their losses are higher, which costs the farmer more and increases the cost to the consumer.
Additionally, without all the chemical preservatives added to conventional foods, organic foods face a shorter storage time and shelf life.
Organic food grows more slowly Time is money.
Not only are organic farms typically smaller than conventional ones, but they also, on average, take more time to produce crops because they refrain from using the chemicals and growth hormones used by conventional farmers.
Smaller, organic farms typically charge more for their eggs and thus can use a breed that lays fewer eggs.
5) Low yields is a complaint, but that's why I gave a clear disclaimer above.
A giant organic factory farm in China is probably worse on all counts than a project to develop pest-resistant GM seeds.
Some companies are "organic" and that just means they don't use chemicals... some however, use more "traditional" farming methods which use various methods for putting nutrients back into the soil.
There is no nutritional advantage to organic.
It is purely a marketing term.
And if you think that organic farming isn’t commercial, you are ignoring the fact that it is a huge industry, every bit as commercial as any other.
It’s basically no better or worse, so when I say “100% overrated”, I mean that all of the purported advantages amount to nothing (and in most cases, are actually just plain myths).
Now there is arguably some extent to which the myths about organic food were technically true when the movement first began about 45+ years ago, but they haven’t been for a very long time.
That said, I would stop just short of saying that organic food is actually a fraudulent enterprise.
The only reason I would stop just short of that is that I don’t believe that it is necessarily the intent of those in the industry to deliberately deceive the populace… however, it doesn’t make the emperor any less naked.
Though there are groups like Greenpeace who do deliberately and brazenly lie to people about organic vs conventional and especially GMOs in the interest of advancing their agenda, but Greenpeace isn’t really an industry player.
To distill it down to a single point — and yes, I know this will inevitably lead to an oversimplification, but that’s what will happen when you try to distill anything down to a single statement — Organic food is not a movement based on food value; it’s a movement based on revulsion of science of technology.
The simple reason why it works is because the marketing message of organic food evokes fanciful imagery of the “olden days” against the fearsome images of poorly understood concepts of modern technology and the hatred of big megacorporate interests.
It’s a marketing message that plays to people's atavistic fears of that which they don't fully understand.
People think of technological advances in agriculture like GMOs and they picture mad scientists The latter of which is a bit hilarious since the organic food market isn’t dominated by your neighborhood farmers… it’s dominated by the likes of Wal-Mart, Costco, Kraft, Kellog’s, etc.
First of all, let’s begin with the belief that organic food is better for you — that’s simply untrue.
Actual studies show there is no advantage whatsoever when all else is equal.
The variables that affect nutrient quality have more to do with conditions like soil management, disease, weather, etc… and that’s the case regardless of farming process.
An organic tomato grown in Florida is going to have poorer nutrient quality to a conventional tomato grown in California — that’s just down to soil.
Moreover, the techniques that farmers use to manage soil quality and account for weather and so on are the same for organic vs. conventional farming techniques.
They’re actually the same techniques farmers have been using pretty much since the dawn of civilization — modern technology has merely improved the efficiency and scale at which they can do it.
Let’s also remember that the farming industry isn’t one in which quality drives the economy; Quantity, on the other hand, does.
More specifically, the money a farmer makes isn’t a function of nutrients or flavor.
It’s a function of the total weight of yield.
While an organic farmer can make a little more per kilo of yield, the total weight for a given amount of input labor and operating costs is less as well, so farmers don’t actually make good money on organic.
As far as taste/flavor goes, studies show that organic vs. conventional is basically a tie.
Moreover, there are also studies that strongly indicate that the perceived flavor advantage of organic food is entirely down to expectations.
In blind tests, things come out basically even (again, assuming all else equal), but if people are told that one is organic and one is conventional, the one they were told is organic tends to win, even if the subjects of the study were actually misled.
Also, many people believe that organic food means no pesticides or herbicides.
That’s actually a myth.
Natural ones are actually allowed (and there are several of these), and they are used in large quantities.
As it so happens, this is actually less “green”, because naturally sourced pesticides and herbicides tend to carry all sorts of impurities, and offer lower efficacy, which actually means that organic farmers have to use more of it to get their yields up to manageable levels… Synthetic pesticides and herbicides are more effective, can be used in smaller quantities, and are higher purity, which actually makes them many times safer and cause less contaminated runoff.
In fact, all outbreaks of food-borne illness from vegetables sold in the U.S. in the last 30 years have been connected exclusively to organic vegetables.
Similarly, the notion of no antibiotics or hormones in organic is also a myth.
What it actually is that that there are no antibiotics or hormones used specifically for purposes other than to treat diseases and/or disorders.
And also, any notion that these things are necessarily harmful betrays an inordinate ignorance about biochemistry, but that’s exactly why people fear it so much in the first place.
There’s not even the slightest shade of evidence that these things actually affect humans in any way.
Also, a meat that is certified organic does not mean that all of the feed stock is organically grown; it’s around 80%, and exceptions can be made if there are known nutrient deficiencies in the feed stock.
There are some people who believe that buying organic helps small or local farmers, and that too is a myth.
As mentioned before, organic is now a huge industry, and it bears all the same “evil corporate” characteristics one would associate with conventional “factory” farming.
You can support local growers by paying more at farmers markets, but one should take notice of the fact that this is actually a less environmentally sound approach.
Economies of scale actually make industrialized farming more eco-friendly overall.
While organic growers ostensibly make more per unit weight than conventional farmers, the fact that they're cut off from a host of technological advances means that it isn't even a theoretical possiblity for them to obtain equivalent yields on the same resource input.
It turns out in practice that for all farm owners who own both conventional and organic plots, they make less money per acre on organic (again, assuming apples to apples, of course).
That said, in spite of the propaganda campaigns, it should be also known that the horrifying images we've all seen are actually not as large an issue as demagogues would have you believe.
Buying organic or pushing for cruelty-free practices in all kinds of farming?
To a certain extent, I'm torn on this one since all dollars are infinitely more powerful than all votes, but to be able to pull it off requires a certain degree to which people at large need to be informed… which I'm fairly sure is never going to be possible.
The organic food market is all about making more money, not being healthy or "natural".
Foods that are labelled as organic pay a premium to be certified as such and they also charge a lot more.
Most of the time there is no added value to buying organic other than a nice happy feeling and a lighter wallet for you to carry around.
Since Whole Foods carries much in the may of non-organic, highly processed and foods with added sweeteners, I don't consider it a 'natural food' store.
Whole foods is a little too expensive to be a regular stop for my budget.
I also don't buy the organic marketing/anti GMO stance they take, but I'll tolerate it if I'm in there on occasion.
Thus, unless I need something specific, I do general grocery shopping elsewhere.
Yeah, it's pricy, but I like the change, and it can help me maintain healthy eating habits in an environment not so conducive to good eating.
If you eat/buy organic to avoid industrial chemical and pesticide residues, then buying the foods that are on the current (2015) "Clean 15" list of commercially grown foods is an affordable option if you don't want to pay for organic.
It's important to note that even in organic farming, non-synthetic pesticides are used when necessary.
(Organic does not mean that less harm is caused to the environment.
Anything you can taste is a chemical and even organic certified contains chemicals and even pesticides as 1 plants produce their own pesticide properties and 2 organic uses pesticides just like all agriculture!
I have the time (no kids) and the financial resources to be able to do this, so I like to think of it as doing my part to help bring down the prices of fresh and organically grown food for everyone.
But without pesticides and other tools known for producing high-yield agriculture, would organic food really be able to produce enough food to feed people?
A way to make organic food cheap Organic food sometimes costs more.
This adds to the cost of produce.
Contrary to popular belief, “organic” can actually be worse on the environment, and also be more “dangerous” to consume (depending on your definition of “dangerous”, of course.
Organic farming does not achieve the same yields as more modern farming techniques, so more land is used to grow the same amount of food.
Couple that with the odd definitions of organic in many countries and it often means that harsher, less targeted poisons (like Rotenone) are used for pest control, because they are more “natural”.
Because these pesticides are less targeted, they have a tendency to cause a much greater environmental effect, like killing of beneficial predator species, often resulting in a *higher* usage of pesticides than in a non organic farm.
Over all my personal feelings are the cost is not worth it, but your opinion may vary.
Just don’t tell me they are healthier/more environmentally friendly, when they clearly are not.
I'm not sure what you mean by 'organic medicine,' but I guess you want headaches to go away and these things have worked for me.
Because organic food has lesser produtivity compared the common foods.
The shelf life is shorter, meaning the product has a quicker expiration date.
Since it has a quicker expiration date, the item: A.
My point in all this is that if organic has any benefits, it's insignificant.
The differences are insignificant considering the wide array of agricultural practices you might define as "organic" or "conventional," and it's insignificant considering the many other unhealthy things we all do and eat.
Labels have very little to do with it.
It’s another story in poor countries.
Of course, in poor countries, the environmental record of using modern techniques is pretty lousy too.
But the high priests of the organic movement somehow think seed varieties male a difference too, even though almost none of the crop seeds in use today would have occurred naturally.
However, because of reduced yields, the same amount of land, water, fuel, and labor is used to produce less food.
I think this is wasteful.
And it doesn’t consider newfangled methods like vertical farming.
In general organic is worse for the environment and GMO better.
Organic methods are typically low yield, which means they have a bigger resource impact, including the amount of land required.
In the U.S., at least, they also use pesticides which are more toxic than those used in conventional farming, and in higher quantities.
Organic is a scam 80% of the time.
Archer Farms "organic" food is a joke.
Look on the packaging and you'll notice food additives, where as these are synthetic compounds.
Organic certifications are not strict enough, and if you have something like canned green beans that are "organic" they may still have non-organic ingredients or additives, however the green beans themselves are organic.
Almost all vegetables and fruits in the super market are artificially ripened, even if its labeled organic.
But do not trust everything with "Organic" labelled on it !
The answer is clearly a no.
This, however, is a poor way to truly determine nutrition or truly, even taste perception, as being told the food is organic makes people rate it higher .
Firstly, it's important to note that organic farmers also use pesticides, and conventional farmers also minimise pesticide use through Integrated Pest Management ( IPM , natural predator insects, crop rotation, cover crops, etc).
A comment on that study: Until recently, nobody bothered to look at natural chemicals (such as organic pesticides), because it was assumed that they posed little risk.
But when the studies were done, the results were somewhat shocking: you find that about half of the natural chemicals studied are carcinogenic as well.
We assumed that “natural” chemicals were automatically better and safer than synthetic materials, and we were wrong.
Some organic-approved pesticides are slightly to moderately toxic.
Some of the pesticides commonly used on organic crops are applied at rather high rates (pounds per treated acre).
In any case, organic-approved pesticides definitely leave residues on treated crops by the time they reach the consumer.
- Why You Can Feel Guilt-free Buying Non-Organic Produce Unfortunately, we're in the dark about organic pesticide residues.
There will be no testing for organically approved pesticides.
From: <URL>" There hasn't been, and still isn't any testing of the organic pesticide residue.
The cost of buying organic is felt by your wallet and the environment, as organic farming at present unfortunately exerts a greater toll on our natural resources than conventional farming - it demands more land, and produces more nitrogen run-off for instance.
Meanwhile, what would be best for the environment were to only choose to buy organic for those crops where yield is not much lower (lower yields = more wasted resources), or even higher than conventional.
This recent overview of US data by Steve Savage in Forbes: The Lower Productivity Of Organic Farming: A New Analysis And Its Big Implications has some good tables for more information about that.
The other show 10 - 71 % lower yields than conventionally grown varieties, which means that more labour, resources and land is needed for organic farming to get the same result as for conventional.
There is zero health or nutritional benefit to be gained by spending twice what you need to on organic.
You can feed bugs, or feed people.
Thoroughly wash all produce, even that which is labeled organic and that which you plan to peel.
First of all, there is a small amount of scientific evidence to show that organic food is better in quality than conventional food.
Scientific research conducted thus far on various organic food items has not been able to give strong evidence about the superiority of organic food over non-organic food.
There are many studies that prove that there is some pesticide and fertilizer contamination in non-organic food, and there are others which claim that organic food is not healthy because they contain harmful bacteria and viruses because of not using strong chemicals to protect against these toxic substances.
Scientific research has also not been able to conclusively prove that organic food is healthier than conventional food because there has been counter research too to prove conventional food is better than organic one.
Yes, organic food normally costs 20% to 100% more than conventional food.
Actually i see there’s a lot of hype created for organic vegetables , fruits and food stuff.
organic vegetables and fruits are beleived to be grown without the use of pesticides and fertilizers but i doubt how much is that possible?
But i personally prefer the conventional vegetables and fruits washed well and consumed.
For most fruits and veg, my experience is that the strain of the plant has more influence than farming method on quality of taste-a mass market strain of something might be chosen more for shelf life or appearance than flavor but the organic strains seem to be more often chosen for flavor due to the marketing approach being different.
Organic food can taste bland as it isn't enhanced by artificial additives.
There are ranches that produce grass-fed beef but don't go through the rigorous requirements to get the organic label.
And much of what you get at a farmers' market will be excellent but not organic, because compliance with the organic regime can be prohibitively expensive for a small farmer.
Organic is a marketing term.
Organic is a marketing term with no useful definition.
But most techniques sold as organic are ill suited for large volumes, so I suspect that the country that becomes the world's food supplier will more likely use science based agriculture such as GMO.
Today's natural foods, of course, are much cleaner, but many are still sickened and occasionally killed by e.coli, listeria, and salmonella, largely on account of the manure fertilizer.
The number is far greater than those whose health might have been damaged by minute pesticide residues.
Organic farmers still use poisons, however.
There are huge commercial farms that have lobbied for and diluted the original definitions proposed for organics, and produce large quantities of produce on a maginally better margin than their conventional crops because their process isn't much differentiated.
The main issue is that organic farming produces less food per unit of land than 'conventional' agriculture - sometimes by as much as 50%, but it depends.
So with a still-expanding global population and a finite (and, in some areas, disappearing) amount of available arable land, large-scale organic farming is not efficient enough to meet demand.
It's also less consistently reliable as it eschews modern techniques for resisting age-old threats (such as blight) and newer ones (like increasingly unpredictable weather).
Finally, it's less 'green' with higher water usage and more CO2 released.
I found this Forbes article with a brief but fairly comprehensive round-up Why Organic Isn't 'Sustainable'
See Why Organic Food May Not Be Healthier For You for a summary.
But if you're more concerned about "bang for your buck," a balanced diet of conventional foods is an easier way to stay healthy.
There is also no demonstrated food safety or nutritional difference between organic milk and conventional milk.
Why is organic food produce more expensive than conventionally grown fruits, vegetables and grains?
Once opened it's no longer aseptic, so you have to refrigerate it, but it's so sterile that it will last longer than milk conventionally pasteurized.
That makes a relatively small dent in the price of organic milk, which is already a premium.
But if I have $50 for groceries and tomatoes are $1.99 and the organic tomatoes are $4.99, I'm probably going to go and buy the normal tomatoes.
Because we are not rich and I like to feed my family and not have them die.
As what has already been mentioned, cows are herbivorous, but that doesn’t guarantee that they are vegetarian or even vegan.
When cows are deficient in some minerals that they cannot get from their primary diet of grass and legumes, they will get by eating bones, animal flesh, soil, wood and drinking urine.
Organic food from China is not worth eating - their water is heavily polluted.
Broad labels that have absolutely no meaning.
Organic pesticides/herbicides can be just as dangerous as conventional ones… or just as harmless, or even completely identical.
I know morons go on about how it tastes better or is “healthier”, and that none of this is backed up by the large number of studies.
Organic is not always better.
He knows the eggs that are “organic” and “cage-free” are actually coming from hens who have no hen house so half are pecked to death by boss hens (a terrible death) but the humans aren’t allowed to stop the abusive pecking deaths because they are required to make the living conditions for the hens exactly what it would be like in the wild.
There is no getting away from the fact that Organic means more time, and less productivity, all that costs money.
Growth of Organic Agriculture The world market for organic food has grown for over 15 years.
Not if you live in the US though “Organic” is meaningless in the US.
Heck noboby believes in "organic" medicine for humans do they?
This is the lowest quality version of organic and while you do have fewer pesticide residues and fewer antibiotic resistant pathogens, the nutritional quality is usually very close to the same.
Just a cheap imitation of organic designed to command a higher price at market and meet that consumer demand.
I personally call this “substitution organic”, and its main benefit is that a farmer can convert to this easily without much in the way of new training or equipment.
In India, there are numerous online grocery stores but very few offer quality services and products.
It is very tough to say they are 100% organic.
There is no way to find out that vegetable vendors who claim that the vegetable are grown under organic conditions.
When it comes to Organic there arises "Certification by competent authorities."
Why should there be a regulation on organic farming is a question asked but never answered.
There is also the notion that food without “chemicals” is pure, when there are vegetables that can kill or harm people that have been bred conventionally.
Which ironically, is the same pesticide used in organic produce.
Typically, the yield is less for organic crops.
The cost difference between the two farming practices may very, but the yield for organic farms never matches traditional farming.
Organic foods may cost less to produce, but that is not a significant reason for the higher price.
With organic crops, the ability to predict the yield reduces, and the final yield itself is dramatically reduced, if it were the same price, he would make much less profit from organic crops.
Organic crops will yield at least 30%-50% less than the same crop that is treated with chemicals.
That means that the farmer could potentially make half the profit of the conventional crop.
(I use the quotes because it a silly term) It's expensive and no more nutritious than conventionally grown foods, though it does contain much lower levels of pesticide and herbicides, which I suspect one does not want to ingest a lot of.
I think organic food is more expensive per unit to produce because the pesticides and herbicides used in modern farming (along with the mechanization) allow for more units to be produced per allotted space.
So an acre of land farmed using modern practices may result in a greater bounty than an acre of land farmed organically.
Another aspect is there is some degree of over pricing because people perceive greater value in organic food, and they are willing to pay for it.
As owner of a business selling natural and organic products, I know I have competitors pricing products much higher than their costs of production.
"Organic" farming does indeed use pesticides, and they're every bit as toxic as the artificial pesticides.
Not everything "natural" is good.
And most of what you read on the topic of organic farming, both for and against, is very bad.
Here's the deal: organic food is not lower in "toxins".
It affects the world's poor negatively.
Not just because of lower yields and lack of access to synthetic inputs but the organic movement's agitation to keep farmers from accessing the latest technology and science.
The subsistence farmers in Africa using traditional methods are essentially organic farmers and it's with joy that the organic movement keeps them using these methods, keeping them in perpetual poverty.
The organic movement is also fighting to keep solutions like Golden Rice from poor farmers, making it guilty of millions of blind and dead.
From first hand experience, I can tell you that organic vegetables are more likely to have pest damage.
The first time I bought organic, I bought a zucchini, and sliced it in half right through a worm that had apparently been living inside it.
People have a common perception that organic vegetables are larger and healthier, but this is due to selection bias.
I regularly attend one of the largest farmer-only farmer's markets in the US, and the organic crops are typically pitiful compared to the commercially fertilized ones.
Why would commercial growers pay for all the research and development that goes into commercial fertilizers if they could make bigger and better vegetables with cow crap?
There have also been some high profile news cases lately where "organic" farms turned out to be getting a lot of runoff from traditional commercial farms.
It's better to choose a locally grown green vegetable at the farmers market from a farmer who does not have an organic certification than to get a vegetable flown in from the other side of the world with the organic label.
Too many nutrients are lost in the process.
Plus, it's not sustainable environmentally.
Organic farming for entire mankind appears to me to be unviable.
So organic farming is meant to feed those elite among humans, who would like to escape the genetic impacts of nature devastation triggered by human interventions.
May be over a few thousand years, such populations who could continuously afford and consume such organic foods may out survive rest of human race, alternatively humans might adopt genetically to all evil impacts of adversities.
Food miles is not the only reason why organic is sometimes more environmentally destructive.
Other reasons can include lower efficiency (which means more acres of land used for production), and organic pesticides (which are sometimes worse than the non-organic equivalents).
At the same time, the research shows that organics tend to have more contaminants, such as e-coli.
No use of any chemical increase the market value of the particular crop So it shows that in future its is necessary do organic for soil and human health point of view.
Organic farming having not that much potential to feed upcoming population in future.
For one thing, the quality of the water used in farming is not regulated under organic certification.
The real argument for eating organic food is that it is an alternative to a food system that is unsustainable and damaging to ecosystems, farm workers, fresh water, and pretty much all of the resources we require to survive.
For example, a conventionally grown tomato from a farmstand down the road not only has a higher nutrient content than an organic one picked unripe in california or florida, but it also didn't get packaged and ride in a truck for 2,000 miles to get to your sandwich.
It has nothing to do with quality, freshness, nutritional value or even true sustainability.
As such anything labeled as organic in the grocery store is more expensive than it should be.
I don't buy into the whole ecofriendly organic garbage, but I really like their pizza.
So where it is easy to have a ship full of corn moving to markets, it would seem to me that organic fruit and vegetables are more vulnerable to damage in transit.
My impression is that for the most part, it doesn't make a difference.
In those cases, aim not for organic but naturally raised.
Because organic crops have more pests and lower levels of nutrition than non-organic crops, the yield per acre is much lower.
Scott Strough's answer to Why is organic food (basically organic vegitables and fruits) in USA much more expensive than any other country?
Worth Investing More on Organic Foods The main concern about the organic foods is their cost due to the expensive farming technique.
Now, most products that are labelled organic are just that - labelled organic.
It's often worse for the environment.
Here in the U.S. much of our organic produce is shipped to us from other parts of the world, offsetting much of the benefit of reducing chemical run off.
If given the choice between local or organic, I'll almost always choose local.
So if the water used to irrigate the crops is highly contaminated industrial wastewater full of pollutants and heavy metals, you can still claim the product is organic.
If you are seeing organic products from India, I would also be inclined to be sceptical.
It may also the fertilizer they use as most contain harmful chemicals instead of good ol' fashion chicken/animal poop.
Sometimes it could be a just a label to push your grocery bills higher.
There are many unscrupulous people who simply put a label to earn a profit.
I always eat whatever i could afford and supermarket organic isn't it anytime soon.
Wow sounds healthy but practically is expensive for middle class you can compare the price of organic food products.
Plenty of natural food sources have dangerous enzymes, acids and chemicals which can be deadly or harmful if not used properly or if not used in moderation.
The source of the chemical is not any guarantee as to the overall safety of the chemical.
Plenty of natural and organic foods we eat every day have potentially harmful ingredients in varying quantities.
Just take your geiger counter to the spice aisle *1 or the fruit aisles and you will see.
Plenty of certified organic ingredients can be harmful in large and small doses.
Plenty of certified organic pesticides will kill a human as easily as kill a bug.
As I pointed out in my answer, there are pesticides allowed on organic crops that are known (rather than probable) carcinogens.
Are you going to eliminate organic crops from your diet because of their pesticide residues?
Based on available science, that actually seems like the safest way to go, and I try to avoid organic produce when shopping.
Organic is purely a marketing term.
It has absolutely nothing to do with the safety or nutrition of food[1].
Organic is, to be clear, no guarantee that those levels will be safe.
Footnotes [1] Boycott the butterfly, and stop buying organic.
So-called "organic food", OTOH, can be not only unhealthy, but dangerous.
For instance, if you're allergic to shellfish, so you stay on an organic vegetarian diet, you'll probably kill yourself.
(Except that if they're getting it from "organic" shrimp, peanut shells or something else you're allergic to, it could kill you.)
Eat "organic", "non-GMO" food full of cholesterol that uses salt to enhance the flavor (both salt and cholesterol are part of an "organic" diet, BTW) and you're eating unhealthy food.
From the Scientific American Why does organic milk last so much longer than regular milk?
In my view Organic farming may not sustain for too long.
with organic farming we cannot match the agriculture growth with that of population growth.
If the area under organic farming increases it is very difficult to get those kind of fertilisers.
Organic pesticides are not that effective to control the epidemics.
production figures cannot sustain if the organic farming increases.
Common man cannot afford to by organic, food.
Actually, no, I don't.
At least, I do not have a strong preference for organic food.
The washing will take care of the traces of pesticide remaining.
While poisoning from pesticides is extremely unlikely, bacterial or parasitic contamination of our food supply is relatively common.
All it takes is one episode of food poisoning or one class in parasitology and anyone who thinks about it will be very shy of ordering raw oysters, sashimi, seared tuna, or a rare steak.
Nutrients are created by the plant's growth processes and metabolism -- whether the food is grown conventionally or organically doesn't really do much to change the plant's metabolic processes.
A great many peer-reviewed studies have failed to find any health benefit to organic foods over equivalent conventional foods.
That goes for both conventional and organic fruit -- the organic stuff doesn't have as much sprayed on it, but it does have more exposure to illness-causing contaminants like e. coli.
And all grocery store fruit is pawed through all day by produce clerks and other shoppers.
Note that food wastage is much higher without these pesticides -- organic farming tends to require ~10% more farmland to produce the same final crop due to pest damage.
And ripe organic fruit spoils in days rather than weeks.
On one hand, this creates a much greater opportunity for transmission of food-borne illness.
(This risk seems to offset any possible health gains from organic food.)
Anyway, studies have shown that organic foods offer little/no health benefit over the same conventional produce.
That's a pretty good sign that they don't contain more nutrients.
I mean, they could, but it would have to be a minuscule improvement below the detection threshold of scientific studies.
And if the difference is too small to be statistically detectable, I really don't think we should worry too much about it.
It's not fruit, but organic milk lacks some antibiotics and hormones that have been linked to health effects in humans.
In general , there isn't much benefit to organic food.
'Organic farming' has a future in India, but it is not the future of agriculture in India.
As Rajeev Saxena also observes we got to have a reliable 'certification system' in place so that the consumers do not keep guessing about the quality of the products they shall pay as organic.
A.S Ramprasad has rightly pointed out that in 'organic farming' there is drastic decline in yields.
There is usually a huge mark-up on prices for anything labelled 'organic' or 'natural'.
Foods that are touted to be 'all natural' or 'organic' aren't necessarily better or even good for you.
Unfortunately, at this point most food labeled organic is done so primarily as a marketing strategy, as the trendiness of organic food has been largely co-opted by business interests and Big Ag.
Most organic food sold in large retail outlets is grown very similarly to the conventional alternatives, with negligible differences concerning the ecological or social impacts, and questionable health gains to the consumer (the Internet is full of studies both professing and denying the healthfulness of organic over conventional.
So yes, organic as it stands is mostly just a marketing gimmick.
So, unfortunately, I don't think there is a big impact yet, and lifestyle-driven chronic disease (heart disease, diabetes, arthritis, strokes, cancers, joint problems and pain, mood disorders, etc.)
The article states that organic wild seafood is a misnomer, which is true, but I believe that eating wild seafood is much better for you than eating farmed seafood - for example because mercury levels are typically much higher in farmed seafood.
I would recommend buying wild (and therefore not organic) salmon over organic farmed salmon.
TL/DR: There are no good reasons to believe that eating organic has any meaningful benefits for your heath or the environment when compared to conventional agriculture.
However in in different situations there are benefits of choosing conventional over organic.
In all "it depends", but there's probably no benefit on the whole.
Health wise there's no real benefit.
Though organic produce typically has slightly higher mineral and vitamin contents than conventionally grown produce, the diffence is slight and can be compensated for by eating slightly more fruit, which you can afford more easily by not buy organic.
Organic producers use pesticides too ( Page on xerces.org and Pestcides in Organic Farming ) and these pesticides are likely no less harmful to the environment or human health.
Daniel's answer says that organic produce contains less heavy metals, but without some legitimate sources to back that claim, I'd assume that heavy metal concentrations would be similar.
a good overview is found here: Mythbusting 101: Organic Farming > Conventional Agriculture
Organic food is not necessarily healthier than non GM food.
However, organic food alone is often less healthy than its processed counterpart.
Organic food is not healthier: Stanford U.
Why Organic Food May Not Be Healthier For You However, in many, many cases, organic food is going to have a worse impact on the environment.
TL;DR: spend the money on directly helping the environment instead of buying organic.
Except on the basis of cost, for those who can't afford to pay a premium for certified organic goods.
With no certification then also the products may be organic but it is difficult to know.
Andrew, can you delineate why organic is less sustainable?
(They want to distract you from the fact that organic food isn't actually healthier.)
Organic certainly doesn't just mean home-grown.
There are organic pesticides and fertilizers, and if you use them, and refrain from adding manufactured chemicals, or using GMO plants or non-organic or chemically-treated seeds, or growing your vegetables in soils that have been fertilized with non-organic materials for three or more years, then you can claim your vegetables are equivalent to organic vegetables .
As a private grower, you're not eligible for certification of your produce as organic.
Another perspective: there's no such thing as organic wine.
If you're committed to consuming organic products, there are a good many quite tasty wines made from organic grapes, although I would steer you clear of domestic products and brands that are designed expressly to take advantage or your predilections and beliefs.
A lot of biodynamic agriculture is superstition.
They are not pesticide and chemical free, they are grown with “organic approved” pesticides and chemicals, which is code for “untested”.
Mythbusting 101: Organic Farming > Conventional Agriculture
Have no doubt about it – the main disadvantage a local farmer has is the federal government applying high regulation fees that only corporate farms can afford and still make a good living.
The problem with the term organic is that it is ambiguous.
The term has enough ambiguity where farmers can manipulate the interpretation of it.
For example, the number of pesticides allowed in the US is much larger and includes some synthetic pesticides.
The organic people want you to believe that they all provide all the soil "health" components and this creates better fruit.
Huge injected chicken is typically not the most expensive, but organic is.
This is because organic feed retails for 2* the cost of regular feed.
Organic fruit will almost always have blemishes, spots, and sometimes bruises.
There are few distributors rather very few distributors who really care for producers.
Consumers in the urban doesn't care to pay a premium for such distributors as long as they get quality produce.
We at My Goodness Organic and Natural Store support groups thay are under stress.
Restaurants and grocers will convince Americans to spend more on their produce, and consumers get the satisfaction of both the actual and imagined benefits of eating organically.
The clear result is that there is a decrease in imports, most of which probably come from large corporations where most profits go to management and stockholders, but with a very significant amount of profits from the people they employ and in some cases where they don't own the farms, the farms they buy from.
In other words, more income circulates within the United States, but because the marketing is so successful, people are actually willing to pay the higher prices.
One particularly idealistic one may be told from the perspective of perhaps a small firm or farm.
Because people are easily fooled into believing stuff that isn’t true.
I’ve seen all these food and supplement fads come and go for decades, and I am skeptical of anything that is the latest thing.
Unless it is backed up by hard science, I ain’t buying it.
Organic foods are supposedly better for you, but this is misleading.
Organic food no more nutritious than conventionally grown food - Harvard Health Blog I am not going to spend three times as much money for a bunch of fruit or veggies just because someone smacked an ‘organic’ label on it.
Organic might be healthier, but there is no hard and fast proof they they are.
I don’t buy organic foods for the same reason I don’t go to a chiropractor.
Neither one of them has proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that what they say is true actually is true.
I can grow organic foods in my own garden or get them from a local Farmer’s Market, and avoid the over-priced stuff in the grocery store easily enough.
(I know a bunch of people will want to jump my ass for this answer, but I follow science, not fads).
Organic doesn't "help the environment".
And the answer to the last question is blazingly obvious: Because they don't want their perfectly healthy product demonized.
You shouldn't want it to be more expensive for no reason, either.
Personally, I make a point of avoiding "organic" foods as a matter or principle.
Promoting "organic" is to imply that it is somehow better than the other products, and I reject that notion.
For most people it's NOT better, it's just more expensive.
To those who claim better taste and so forth, that's absolutely great but that has almost nothing to do with organic, per se .
If you take an organic carrot that was picked and packed and stored in the same way as a non-organic carrot, which is generally going to be the case for all food found in the grocery store, you will not likely discern a difference.
In other words, both these carrots are produced using industrial methods.
One conforms to the very loose standards of the National Organic Program and once does not, but otherwise the same practices are employed in their production, including mechanization, massive scale, conveyor belts, warehouses, distributors and middlemen.
Unfortunately, "Organic" has been co-opted as a marketing term by large corporations and their industrialized production, and so that means that the drop in nutrient content applies to organic and "conventional" alike.
Unfortunately, most of the so-called organic foods sold at the health food markets aren't that great tasting.
Organic free range may or may not be more environmentally friendly.
On one hand, if a cow in an organic herd has a post calving infection that needs antibiotic, she must be removed from the herd forever.
On the other hand, some organic treatments are more toxic than non-organic treatments.
My own opinion is buy local first and then organic if you can afford it.
It's conclusion was that "the global claim that “organic food tastes better” is not valid, and each product type should be treated separately before a claim can be made."
Furthermore, blind taste tests on tomatoes have found them to taste worse if organically grown, and potato and broccoli to be indistinguishable in taste quality ( Organic food less tasty than normal, watchdog says ).
The reason you think they are "so delicious" is quite possibly due to the halo effect, which those working in marketing understand very well.
And a study has been done into that, too: ( You taste what you see: Do organic labels bias taste perceptions?
If you're a coupon clipper, look for online coupons for organic foods as well.
I hope organic food becomes cheaper and more easily accessible to everyone and the chemicals and pesticides used for growing what's being called "food" someday are stopped.
But it can be treated with natural pesticide which are often used in commercial versions and it can be modified as all grown foods have been done by farmers forever.
And in fact it has been proven time and again that many organic foods are not actually better for you as the supposed natural ways of producing can also sometimes aha negative side affects, damage the dna, etc.
Very few organic foods exist in their native state as they have been grafted and recommend for eons.
And, even though I'll only eat organic beef, I don't think it's as tasty as the commercial beef because grass-fed cattle graze, and because of that are leaner with less marbling in their muscles.
There is no difference in normal eggs and so called packaged organic eggs.
It is just the packaging and with fancy marketing tag.
It is also costly when compared to loose eggs .
People find organic products way more costly than the normal ones.
If you can sell them at normal rates customer response will be good.
And organic food sellers are just too happy NOT correcting this idiotic idea.
When in fact they use a lot more fertiliser and quite a lot more of pesticides because they don't work as well and sometimes not even at all.
And the organic stamp can mean whatever you want it to mean.
People think it stands for quality and cleanliness, when it does not.
It is very easy to show that organic food is smaller, takes up more land to produce, uses a lot more pesticides and has way less vitamins and minerals, all you have to look at is the ingredients, I have seen organic posters even claim that organic foods contain vitamins that it does not contain at all and you can see it when you look at the ingredients on the product.
This is one powerful brain wash
Organic is worse for the environment, and has no nutritional advantage.
It is purely marketing, start to finish.
<URL>" It's also the money behind most of the anti-GMO hysteria, meaning that the industry is arguably a net negative on public health.
You might get some marginal nutritional improvements after many years or even a decade or more, but mostly it is exaggerated.
The 'local and organic' tag needs to be dropped if we need to head in the right direction.
In most cases organic crops are only 1/3 the product output of modern conventional farming.
Organic rules that prohibit certain food preservatives can therefore make organic food less healthy.
In practice organic certification has become something of a racket, so much of a tick-box exercise imposing complex record keeping requirements etc before you are allowed to call your products "organic", and there are different certification bodies which all have slightly different standards.
However some approved organic farming methods are also environmentally-damaging: nitrate runoff, polluting watercourses, is worse from fields fertilised with manure slurry than from fields fertilised using precise dosages of artificially-produced nitrogen fertiliser.
Of course, there may be cases where buying certified organic is, on balance, more environmentally destructive because of food miles and other energy-related issues.
If you're choosing between a non-organic product with low food miles and an organic product with high food miles, organic might be a worse choice.
You may have to shell out a bit more, but at least you can breath easy on the much higher hospital bills that might have been the case.
I always go for BC or New Zealand apples (I live in Vancouver), without bothering about organic or not except as it affects the price.
There are good reasons for those bans: those particular pesticides are not safe for humans and also damage the environment, especially bees.
But not to eat it, I think) are also safe for humans and bees and there’s no point in paying extra for organic ones.
It is not necessary to pay the extra money for organic.
Other ingredients would probably be toxic chemicals followed by preservatives and other ingredients that humans should not be consuming.
The only danger I can think of (aside from obesity) is a very serious but avoidable one: contamination from organic fertilizers.
My wife damn near died from eating organic carrots.
E coli and other dangerous bacteria thrive in rich organic matter that has not been composted properly.
Wash all produce carefully, especially if it is organic.
In the case of root vegetables like carrots, it may even make sense to cook them, since the bacteria can penetrate into the interior.
Watermelon and bananas have such a thick skin, don’t bother with organic.
“Organic” foods are neither more healthy nor safer than conventionally produced food items.
Numerous studies have attempted to find whether organic vegetables and fruits offer any substantive advantage or benefit, but almost all have failed.
On the other hand, organic food production is not an advantage when trying to maximize crop yield from limited land.
It is less efficient.
Further, ready-to-eat plants such as lettuce, green onion, are more vulnerable to contamination by animal waste and the bacteria it contains (especially E. coli which can survive in soil).
In fact, some research has even shown higher rates of microbial contamination on organic foods than conventionally produced foods.
But A recent study examined that organic food is not nutritious.
Some organic products may still be high in sugar, salt,fat or calories.
But it will always be significantly more expensive than non-organic food.
Farmers put artificial fertilisers, pesticides etc.
on their crops for a reason - it increases yields, which decreases costs.
If they could produce organic at the same price as non-organic, or only a small saving (say 10-20%) they would, and save the bother of spraying etc.
Therefore, if there organic and non-organic alternatives, the organic will always (barring offers, temporary gluts etc) be at least 10% more expensive than non-organic.
But it's true that organic food is expensive.
Organic foods cost more for one or more of 4 reasons.
There are ways that organic farmers can attempt to work with nature [instead of beating it into submission with chemicals], but it generally involves a lot of manual labor, which means more expensive produce [even when farm hands are paid $9/hour].
The certified organic farmer must charge a higher price for the exact same product that the organic farmer is selling at a lower cost.
But if you by from a "organic" farmer who is not certified by the FDA, he can pour crude oil on it and still call it organic [petroleum could be used as an ALL NATURAL weed killer!!!!].
Side stepping the issue of defining organic for the moment, take it or leave it, my opinion is: organic produce CAN be grown for a little less than what it is sold for today.
Organic foods cost more for one or more of 3 reasons.
The other part is that often it takes more labor to grow organic food.
Lastly, even when the producer keeps his costs down, and supply meets demand, often the processing can be expensive due to scale issues.
Organic foods are not “sustainable”.
Raising food “sustainably” (while slippery to define, for one thing) would be very difficult to do or even get close to doing—if it is even possible—given the current economic framework in the world.
The main hurdles/problems in organic farming are: Organic farming is time consumingMore labor or manual work is requiredorganic produce is more expensiveMarketing of organic produce under certification is very expensiveFarmers must some skills/knowledge to choose alternate to chemical farming You can read more about organic farming : HERE.
The only real difference for a product with an organic logo is that it is way to expensive, way more difficult to grow, needs more land and therefore can grow a lot less of it.
Often the organic product has less nutrients, less vitamins and is smaller.
As already the land and water had got polluted by chemical fertilizers this is the only right time time to shift towards chemical free farming/organic farming/permaculture.
If the land is polluted by chemical fertilizer it doesnt mean we will be harmed ok... because it only affects the fertility of our soil and productivity of the crops which we will going to sow.
The idea that "organic" food doesn't have pesticides is a complete myth.
They use just as much, sometimes more.
Sometimes they're of higher toxicity.
It's just that they have to come from an arbitrary list of "natural" pesticides.
It's all marketing.
"Organic" isn't better for you and it isn't better for the environment.
It's just more expensive.
Reality: The words "organic" and "free range" can be used as long as you fulfill the USDA's pretty lenient criteria.
It has little to do with being environmentally sustainable.
Here’s an example where pollution could increase in an organic system: Organic corn requires more intensive tillage to control weeds.
I was big into organic until 2 years ago.
Paying more of organic has not helped the environment, it mainly supports an ideology of being natural.
- A meta-analysis of European research , that concludes: However, ammonia emissions, nitrogen leaching and nitrous oxide emissions per product unit were higher from organic systems.
Organic systems had lower energy requirements, but higher land use, eutrophication potential and acidification potential per product unit.
More on the organic farming problems for the environment in here: On farming, animals, and the environment and Delving deeper into the roots of organic - the last one looks at the problem of lower yields in organic farming.
As my source points out, organic chemicals can be just as bad, if not worse than synthetic chemicals.
Unfortunately, there is not 100 yrs of research (yet) to show just how bad organic chemicals are.
However, I also disagree that organic farming is the perfect solution to all the worlds problems.
I don't believe the ends justify the means, especially when the prices for organic are drastically higher, mostly due to scare tactic marketing and lies.
Organic produce still uses pesticides.
Organic is, in many cases, actually worse for the environment.
There is no health evidence linking organic to higher nutrition value.
So, there are no benefits to eating organic.
Don’t waste your money.
A 2012 meta-analysis (a study examining lots of other studies to make an overall conclusion) found zero benefits to eating organic, for example.
There are three reasons for this that I can see; A) Certified Organic produce is typically more expensive.
C) The USDA slaps an organic label on anything that has 95% organic ingredients, a "made with organic" label on anything that has 70% organic ingredients, and anything that has any one of thousands of non-organically produced ingredients that are "exceptions", but may be expensive.
That is pretty difficult to answer, as “all the pesticides” used in conventional farming add up to many, many different kinds of chemical treatments, some with more residual activity in the environment than others, some more toxic than others.
For the majority of organic food out there, all it means is that a “natural” chemical pesticide has been substituted for a synthetic version.
Often times those “organic” pesticides are in fact far more harmful to the environment than their synthetic counterparts.
Organic, sadly, don’t mean much.
To be "certified organic" requires more than not treating the cows with rBST.
And not giving cows antibiotics, while great in reducing antibiotic-resistance caused from over-medication, is downright cruel if the cow is genuinely sick and antibiotics would cure it.
The requirements for organic food are strict, and not necessarily in the cow's best interest, but there's no question current factory farming is no fun for the cows.
There is a mountain of evidence that organic foods provide zero benefit to the consumer on a medical or nutritional basis.
There is a lot of fearmongering out there to get you to eat organic: Big Organic is just as greedy a corporate entity as any other.
Regular milk is just as healthy, or organic milk just as unhealthy as conventional milk depending on how you feel about dairy.
Plus, food poisoning is always more likely if you eat organic, especially "raw milk," which is almost up there with cigarettes as a poison marketed by its lobby as healthy.
Page on Foodsafetynews Summary: Organic is expensive, probably better for the cows, and potentially better for the environment, but is not better for you.
If you feel paying extra for the same product is worth it, do so, but it's no different from buying an expensive brand name when a generic product is just as good.
It is an ethical issue for humans not a health issue.
Many people are not aware or do not care or worry about the lives of the animals they eat but many people are concerned with their own health.
"Organic crop farming cannot support conventional meat and dairy production, nor can it support the production of organic animal products.
Substituting organic animal products for conventional ones, without a drastic reduction in consumption, clearly is not a reasonable large-scale plan."
There is only one that I know of where there is a real and discernible difference to the consumer, other than it being more expensive.
And I'm not sure which is worse- denying the animal modern medicine for shallow selfrighteous ideals, or espousing those ideals and decrying conventional farming practices simply for the sake of projecting a false image.
It does sound like an exercise in trying to make humans feel better, rather than making milk in a healthy and efficient manner.
I have a feeling Alice in Wonderland would be agog at such irrationality, but you must do what the market rewards.
Taking budget and availability into consideration, I can't go 100% organic.
yes, organic fruits are less tastier than non-organic fruits.
Honestly I read about a lot of so called Organic products being coloured and altered just to seem organic, like organic brown rice, is supposedly just coloured.
Organic milk brands are very few and only 2 or 3 are really trustworthy.
Fruit just doesn't seem to have the same supply levels but it's getting better.
At present it would be very difficult to find certified organic vegetables in the city.
Organic in general hasn't really caught on too much down here.
I live in Baja California and I can tell you that it's small.
So, if you're planning on selling anything organic, make it in area where there's lots of retired gringos who have money (San Miguel de Allende is an example).
I just read a study today of blood levels of synthetic pesticides in children where they were tested on a conventional diet, then switched to organic.
Their levels dropped by half.
Generally speaking, I avoid even organic products from China, as there are serious questions about their practices and the level of pollutants in their soil, air and water.
A product can be labelled organic even if the water used to grow it is highly toxic, for instance.
They consist of materials which are non synthetic.
Use term synthetic or non synthetic.
In the world of food, it carries very little meaning.
Most foods are organic, when it comes right down to it.
For instance, cheap hot dogs and lunch meat are organic.
Maybe it's not the parts you would prefer to eat of an animal, and perhaps they aren't the best choices for quality meat, but it all comes from animals.
And let's examine potato chips; they're organic, too.
They come from real potatoes.
They may get fried within an inch of their lives and coated in salt, but they all came from real potatoes.
Organic merely means it came from a living organism, as opposed to being synthesized in a lab with barrels of chemicals from duPont.
It is heavily influenced by marketing strategy; there is no evidence that suggests it is healthier.
In my opinion, we should not grow organic food; if the world switched to organic farming, we would not be able to feed our growing population.
And with the corrupt certified organic commission slapping their labels on every thing who can tell.
When big buesness and big money get involved it tends to corrupt the procced.
But if there's anybody being duped it's people spending double on organic for no good reason.
There is no sufficient evidence in medical literature to support claims that organic food is safer or healthier than conventional food.
Claims that organic food tastes better are generally not supported by evidence
I worked in a grocery store produce department for years, and the organic apples always went bad at the drop of a hat.
There is very little, or perhaps no reason to spend the exorbitant money to buy milk labelled “organic.” Analysis of the milk will reveal there is virtually no difference that is significant enough to be measured in any meaningful way.
Put your money to work in better ways than organic foods.
However according to the USDA there's no nutritional difference.
If fruit is picked from small groves that do not use pesticides, you are usually pretty safe regardless of labeling.
The organic industry does nothing to fight the misinformation spread by those who profit from it, and indeed profit from it themselves.
The food grown with the certified organic label -is- grown with pesticides for one (herbicides are a type of pesticide).
This does not, however, make them safer for the consumer or the environment.
These pesticides are less effective than synthetic pesticides, and often need to be used in larger quantities in order to be effective.
This is an instance where the organic industry and those who sell the organic lifestyle have actively LIED to you.
Chemophobia is a terrible thing) There is no good evidence that organic is more nutritious than conventionally grown counterparts.
Organic food does not eliminate toxins from the body.
There is no significant difference in nutrition between organic and conventional.
It is also generally much more expensive.
So it’s bad for economy, and a wash on health.
See Boycott the butterfly, and stop buying organic.
These and other studies go a long way to show the benefits of organic protein powder over non-organic protein powder.
Maybe they were also fooled by the distributor/farmer).
In the end, you will never 100% know whether something is actually organic (humans have the unfortunate habit of lying to benefit themselves), you can just arm yourself with as much knowledge as possible so you can make educated guesses.
This is just a loaded marketing term, which in reality stands for more expensive food of lesser quality.
Technically, as per USDA laws, certified organic products can have up to 5% non-organic stuff.
I have got food from online organic shops in India and there is nothing clear to say that they are organic or not and what makes them organic.
Be careful about the labelling as sellers may sell organic and also sell non-organic produce.
I will only pay the extra if it has a 3rd party stamp from an IOAS accredited organic producer - the USDA is watered down and almost meaningless.
I don't see anything DDT-grade on that list, but in particular the non-organic dyes could in theory have all sorts of contaminants, so that is a loophole for non organic produce and herbicides/pesticides to be slipped in.
Processed foods sold as “organic” premium goods by large corporations cashing in, companies such as Kraft etc… sure it's not driven by anything other than profiteering.
There is no requirement to label organic foods, so any producer who does so is doing so purely for advertising purposes.
If you have doubts then you may visit their websites or the certifying agency websites and check for the certification, validity, etc.
They have too much money to spend on food.
They gullibly buy the hype around marketing buzz words like organic and natural.
Since Organic is more of a political and sales term than a technical one, it likely boils down to if the restaurant advertises this or not.
Since organic ingredients are more expensive, restaurants hope to make back their investment by communicating the choices they've made.
If the restaurant doesn't mention organic ingredients, chances are it's not organic.
That said, at Ambronite, we’ve thought about this, but have realised we get the same quality, and in some cases, better quality ingredients without the organic stamp.
No, there is no noticeable difference in taste or health from organic food.
Much more doubtful if "organic" have real health benefits.
please read this article for brief details about organic food.
Organic food itself does not have a significant positive impact on the environment.
Most of the grocers' organic products do not come from sustainable systems, but they surely are produced intensively and are legally labeled "organic".
If organic agriculture is more sustainable than intensive agriculture, why does it cost so much more at the grocery store?
Organic agriculture cannot match the productivity of conventional agricultural because of the nitrogen problem: conventional again uses artificially fixed nitrogen, while a true organic system uses legumes in rotation to fix nitrogen.
By and large, "organic" produce is no different than conventionally grown produce, and the methods are no more sustainable.
The "certified organic" label does allow retailers to charge higher prices, making up for the higher costs of production and lower yields.
Losses are more likely, and yields tend to be less predictable.
It seems self-defeating to preserve organic food with inorganic preservative agents, so shelf-life is reduced while the cost of storage/transport is increased due to spoilage.
Proponents of organic food argue that it's tastier and healthier, so that is an oppertunity to charge an additional premium.
While the overuse of chemical pesticides and herbicides, and the use of specific pesticides like DDT deserve some skepticism the marketing jargon of "organic" seems to be a poor tactic.
Organic is largely a lazy way for suburbanites to avoid encountering the realities of food production.
It is almost pure marketing and produces such significantly smaller yields (about 34% less, but context dependent) that it's not sustainable as a way to feed a world population.
Its also a misconception that organic farmers do not use pesticide or fertilizer.
Farmers that grow organic can charge a higher price to compensate for their reduced yield, and this guy can afford to pay extra if it makes him feel better.
But with organic it just keeps building up until the water is so dirty that it makes the produce more dirty than when it came in.
I understand you want organically-grown foodstuffs to be healthier than foodstuffs grown by the usual suspects.
But, consider, even if it is upheld as the wholefoods truth, would organic farming sustain an entire planet's population?
Without those, several forms of primary crops will become very hard to cultivate at the scale we are currently producing.
I wouldn't be surprised the yield for corn, rice and wheat will fall by half or even more, however if people are serious about having "organic" qualification for their food, i am sure technology and infrastructure can be build up.
Organic production is generally a bit less productive on a per acre basis, but that doesn't mean that it will always be this way.
Because to grow any crop the nutrients requrement is same whil food that are produced naturally without using any chemicals that required large amount of organic fertilizer and it always yield less upto 50% than producing food by using chemical.
It more healthy.now a days the demand is more So it brcomes more costly
You are right, the yield is low.
The natural manure like compost and cow dung etc collection and preparation takes lot of time and effort, hence organic food is costly.
Thus far these have included toxic chemicals like rotenone, pyrethrin and copper sulfate.
Some call these natural but remember, at its base, we all live in a chemical world and dose makes the poison.
There are no health benefits to consuming "organic" food.
Organic is not worth the cost.
Organic food is disgusting, I have written about it here: Josh Manson's answer to What do you think about people who buy and eat only organic food?
Organic doesn't imply all of these.
I don't buy organic if conventional is available.
Some studies have shown that the antioxidant content in organically grown fruits and vegetables may be slightly higher.
There is zero nutritional advantage to "organic" foods.
They just cost more.
There's no guarantee that "organic" means they do that well, either.
The only difference between organic beans and conventional beans (I hate the term "non organic"- beans are organic to start) is that the former will make a bigger dent in your pocketbook than the latter.
Also, you might feel a smug sense of superiority when buying the former.
Industrial organic food isn't really very natural.
It's grown in monocultures and subjected to a lot of chemicals that strike me as not much more "natural" than the synthetic versions.
And they're usually using seed stocks that have been bred (conventionally) for durability rather than flavor.
There is a premium currently we are paying for organic or chemical free produce.
The main downside is cost to the consumer.
The only benefit is psycological if you actually buy into the organic kool-aid.
There is no evidense whatsoever between organic and GMO.
ORGANIC DOES NOT MEAN HEALTHY!
Organic pesticides are not nearly as effective as traditional pesticides so farmers must use a lot more of it and bugs still attack it.
However, chemicals used in organics have proven less effective and have the potential to cause a reemergence of problems that traditional chemicals have already fixed.
The real benefit of organic food is the concept, "you are what you eat."
Bottom line for me...I can't afford to eat 100% organic, but I do buy my veggies at the farmer's market.
However, organic doesn't mean it's better for you, provides more nutrients, or is more healthy.
It just that the product meets some criteria and that it is more expensive.
Organic pesticides can be just as bad as synthetic ones, but they are perfectly okay to use.
Choosing organic generally puts a larger dent in your wallet but doesn't ensure that you're making the world a better place or that you're choosing the more healthy option.
Manipulating the organic label occurs, much like people think "all natural ingredients" means a product is better.
The only con for organic is the extra $$$.
the Swedish Environmental Research Institute recently did a study and found that in Organic eggs there is more dixine and heavy metals than in normal eggs… Who likes organics reads only the positives never negatives.
Organic can be done only in greenhouses.
in Italy found organic food radioactive.
No pesticides but were grown in areas with a high level of radioactivity.
Organic is a business as whole meal, more expensive than white,
Not everything needs to be organic, because it can get pricey.
My advice: put the idea of organic food on hold, finish your studies, get a well paid job and when you can afford to pay the premium price of organic food make it your main source of alimentation.
A surface answer to your question: Because people aren't willing to pay for it.
People know that their health is important, but they don't demonstrate it in their spending.
The only benefot is making a company rich and draining your bank account.
Well you can loose weight by eating organic because you are more likely to contract a food borne illnesses from organics than you are from normal food.
See: Little evidence of health benefits from organic foods, Stanford study finds Of course, even those findings are open to debate: Organic Food vs.
Eating organic on a budget takes planning.
If you just toss organic foods into your shopping cart willy-nilly, you’re in for some sticker shock when you get to the checkout.
Buying organic food daily can be heavy on the pockets.
There has been no large, replicable studies that have shown any difference in safety between organic and nob-organic fruit.
If you want to consider pesticides a danger despite the majority of evidence pointing against it, then know that organic foods are much more dangerous.
Organic pesticides are much more toxic and dangerous to the environment then synthetic ones, and since they are not as effective they have to use more of them too.
Plus, organic foods are not as closely monitored as GMO foods, which leaves them more room to leave these pesticides on their produce.
Organic food is bit expensive in the market.
Buying from the market is little expensive.
Organic eggs will always be costlier than those produced by use of hormone injection in chicken.
This is not to say that ‘natural’ dog food is all bad, but only to suggest that its’ contents are not all pure.
Some, if not most of natural pet food will contain added ingredients that are not entirely wholesome.
Organic pesticides are just as toxic as regular ones.
Be aware of natural toxins.
Some vegetables produce toxins to fight the insects which are similar to the pesticides which are sprayed onto veges to control insects.
If the organic grower is selecting for vegetables that are resistant to insects they will contain a higher proportions of these toxins which are also harmful to us.
(lower consumption of fruit and vegetables due to higher cost of organic production, which means they are less affordable, results in higher cancer rates) and the deaths from the increased cancer rates was much higher.
But fruits where you do not eat the skin, foods with peels, such as bananas, oranges, kiwi, avocado, onions, are not worth the extra money for organic.
And yes, some people are concerned about residual pesticides, but that's another issue.
There is nothing about organic foods that prevents E. coli or salmonella from being transported on those foods.
Pesticides don't either, of course.
It discusses the risk of several organic pesticides to bees.
From what i can find, there's no known health benefit from consuming organic produce instead of conventional produce: Organic food consumption and the incidence of cancer in a large prospective study of women in the United Kingdom Organic Food: Buying More Safety or Just Peace of Mind?
Lastly, consider that organic food has its own set of carcinogenic concerns.
There are a variety of organic-approved pesticides, and the only thing they have in common is that they've been around for a long time.
Nicotine sulfate and lime sulfur are just two examples of pesticides approved for use on organic crops that are carcinogenic.
And some studies have found that certain organic crops are more likely to have carcinogenic mold than their conventional counterparts.
There's no reason to think that organic foods are necessarily safer.
It must be reasonable to assume, that should there be a stable measurable difference in the nutritional content of organic food, different reviews would be able to arrive at that conclusion independently of each other.
Instead, we so far have four reviews on similar lines – finding no nutritional or health benefits of organic food.
For More Details: Market, Trends, Share, Size, Research, Report Sample
And organic farming, at least in the US, uses plenty of pesticides.
'What is Organic?'
The point I am trying to make is that where your pesticides come from—organic or synthetic sources—does not change the fact that this method of growing (industrial, including organic industrial) relies heavily on chemical use either way.
I don’t have any examples of specific foods but yes there are organic pesticides that are more dangerous than synthetic pesticides.
There are "organic" pesticides that are more toxic than synthetic.
There have been recalls and food borne illness outbreaks associated with organic products.
His point was I think you'll find, that copper II sulphate is approved as an organic weedkiller/fungicide, even though its really nasty stuff.
"Organic" does not mean "no pesticides."
I'm afraid science does not really support the health claims of organic produce.
I see other people saying there needs to be evidence organic food is healthier...that's retarded.
Organic is a bit of a scam and no healthier than normal food.
Also organic doesn't mean free of "chemicals": Some Pesticides Permitted in Organic Gardening
I believe in consumer choice, so if people want to waste money and valuable agricultural land on organic food, they should have the choice.
But the government should definitely not subsidise it in any way.
Well as it turns out that is the exact opposite of the truth yet at Walmart it still is put under organic cereals.
Based on this overwhelming public opposition, this proposal prohibits its use in the production of all organic foods even though there is no current scientific evidence that use of excluded methods presents unacceptable risks to the environment or human health.
Now since business is all about supply and demand, before people knew about the benefits of organic foods, people only cared about shape, size, color, and price.
Now since organic foods are one hundred percent natural, they will lose out to genetically enhanced foods based on the above-mentioned factors every time.
At this point of time, organic foods were definitely not sustainable if they were your only business.
There are huge, mega-farms in places like Brazil where the coffee friends look like any other monoculture from the air and the shrubs are treated like soybeans--spray for this, spray for that, fertilize the entire field at one time, etc.
however, in places like Ethiopia, most small farmers simply cannot afford the luxurious of commercial fertilizers and pesticides.
In my opinion, the organic label becomes questionable in these circumstances.
Now we demand our markets to have most and same fresh produces all year long and looking spotless, just like it could be compared to industrialized items... Like that, the label 'organic' often becomes unfit.
Eg: non-organic blueberry concentrate could contain quite a lot of pesticides and still be marked organic, since it's only a few % by weight in the product.
That could be labelled as an organic processed food under USDA or EU regs… but not be nearly as organic as the customer might assume.
Today big companies want to get in the organic business because we are demanding it but are also trying to dilute organic standards.
Relying on labels instead of watching a company’s practices is a horrible method for consumers.
The 'organic' label is abused as much as the concept of 'grass-fed' and 'free-range.'
Dont buy from big basket they tell its organic but it is not.
Organic in this context is a marketing term.
It means that food is produced according to the arbitrary standards set by a marketing lobby.
There is no nutritional advantage to buying organic.
Chipotle doesn't sell organic, I don't believe, although they do market themselves as having healthy/good ingredients.
Here is just one example of many: India's rice revolution All while improving the environment: The System of Rice Intensification (SRI)… … is climate-smart rice production But do it improperly and organic can yield far less and even be more harmful to the environment.
Except organic techniques AREN'T necessarily better for the environment.
Most "organic" farming these days is practiced in the same kind of monoculture that conventional farming is, rendering it prone to the same kind of peril where everybody gets lots to eat today, at least until the wrong pest arises and then everybody starves to death simultaneously.
Organic apples are absolutely NOT “healthier”, whatever that means.
They’re just apples, just like regular apples, except a lot more expensive.
“Organic” is a marketing term, and organic fruits and vegetables are grown with large amounts of pesticides, fungicides, and other “chemicals”.
It’s just that these are “organic approved” chemicals, which means they’re pretty much the same as any other chemicals, or else they wouldn’t be used.
And they’re more expensive.
The term is 100% marketing hype.
Another uniqueness of this food is It is ORGANIC FOOD by default Because no body cultivate commercially this food item.
I never seek organic because there's no reason to.
It's just a marketing gimmick.
I know that there are fake organic products out there.
Generally there is precious little, if any, evidence for health benefits associated with either organic or locally sourced food.
In fact, I avoid organic on principle because it is largely a scam.
A carrot is a carrot when it comes from the same farm or a similar local, organic farm.
Even if the beans are certified organic, they can’t be labeled as such once they go into a roaster that has been used for non-certified beans.
I have a phd in Agricultute and Biology- I actively try to buy non-organic foods as a) there are no benefits or taste differences, b) I realize organics are a marketing differentiated business (albeit a big business) and c) it's not more sustainable.
It says organic, but is that something to rely on?
Some food products are spuriously labelled, 'organic' which is according to someone's opinion could be just home-grown in a kitchen garden or by someone who does not use pesticides on the actual food itself but use pesticides directly or indirectly in the garden or that their neighbours do.
First, I hate labels and Organic is losing its appeal to me especially when I can read that so many "things" are allowed in the Organic process.
I never venture into organic produce department unless there is no regular produce available (if there was a run on strawberries, for example, and there are no regularly grown berries left).
Firstly, companies do pay fees for product space, but they pay it to the distribution company for space in the warehouse, and the distribution company is often the same company that owns the stores.
Whole Foods is going "green foods", a step-down from organic.
They're owned by Coca Cola and Pepsi Co respectively, both of which do very little in organics despite some forays into natural/healthy brands.
Misinformation and lobbyists, the lobbyists for organic corporations are paying boatloads of money to fuel the trend and produce the misinformation.
Let me reply to the questions as follows: - There is a perception that people are starting to make their own organic products at home, but from experience, I find that they are merely makeing the selfie version of home-medication - who never tried to appease a sore throat with honey and lime?
It is a marketing gimmick.
Empirically, there is no evidence that suggests organic foods are any healthier than other foods.
Actually are lots of marketers selling fake products.for safer buying you should buy from eatofresh oganic they have there own organic farms which are certified,they also have posted lots of videos of there farms on youtube.but eating organic is healthy and safe in India as farmer are Illiterate and uses excess amount of pesticides.
If you don't have a neighborhood natural food store or a grocery that has an organic section, it can be difficult to find some organic food products.
Though Monsanto, as far as know, doesn't invest in organics.
That's as absurd as being sure that a taste difference IS because of being organic, without testing.
The organic I've tried tastes exactly the same.
Hi Craig, I am not an Organic-food enthusiast, and I share your thoughts about them.
There are several naturally derived pesticides permitted for organic food production such as pyrethrum (derived from flowers) Although produced from natural materials these pesticides are still not totally risk free and they may also affect the taste of the food.
There's a bigger price..like fresh seafood...and there is a noticeable difference.
Ref: 'You Are Not So Smart': Why We Can't Tell Good Wine From Bad In short: There is no evidence that organic food tastes better than non-organic ones.
As far as I can tell, organic eggs may taste better than "industrially-produced" eggs, but in my experience and to my taste, NOT better than any unspecified free-range or non-factory eggs.
But that is not a thing that makes organic fruit taste better than non-organic fruit as it is possible to obtain the same result with both.
Organic is a marketing term, and there is no nutritional advantage to organic food.
There is no taste difference, and there is no health difference.
There is no advantage at all to "organic" food .
This idea that organic farmers employ other “organic” sprays is genuinely ridiculous.
"Organic" growing forbids using any refined minerals, so you are eating potentially toxic impurities along with the minerals.
But the "organic" lobby spends hundreds of millions of dollars to make you think it's a good thing to eat animal poop.
Just thinking about swallowing heaping spoonfuls of those above items makes my mouth water (animal blood... yummy, yummy, yummy).
Personally, I'd rather eat food without toxic impurities and without animal blood and poop.
Being organic does not mean they do not use pesticides.
Au contraire..pesticides are rampant in the organic market .
"Organic" just means there are no synthetic pesticides or fertilizers- and some synthetics were developed specifically because the organic variants were either ineffective or harmful.
Take "green manure"- it's the cause of multiple E. coli outbreaks in organic produce in recent years.
Not only are pesticides allowed, but some of the "organic" pesticides are much more toxic than standard pesticides.
Organic farming uses plenty of pesticides.
Organic farming also uses fertilizers and pesticides.
In fact, organic farming uses pesticides that are actually more toxic than conventional pesticides, such as rotenone and pyrethrins.
I don’t think any farmer (conventional or organic) wants pollute the environment with poisons, but I wouldn’t assume all organic food is pesticide free.
Organic farms are permitted to use certain “organic” pesticides, e.g.
It's a shame that organic food is not tested for permitted "organic" pesticides due to the extra expense involved.
I meant that all vegetables of all kinds are in the end composed of organic chemicals.
Like the chemicals used as part of organic farming?
I think any reputable and qualified nutritionist will tell you that there's really no difference.
So the chemicals will move towards the organic farm with the water from upstream farms.
Use of strong pesticides also cause migration of pests to the organic farm.
I have heard organic food products are expensive.
Organic foods are not sustainable.
Since organic products is more expensive than conventional kinds.
They keep telling me that it could be the same unorganic stuff sold at a higher price cz it's labelled as ORGANIC.
Do you have a way of actually convincing someone that you actually supply real organic produce.
Wow and Organic Bananas are like the most worthless thing to get "organically" because of their thick peel.
The organic farmer raising the meat -- as well as those involved in the chain between grower and customer -- will have more money to spend on food, if they wish.
Other than that, there's no health benefit to the consumer.
To achieve the standard profit margins for a fast food restaurant, an organic fast food restaurant would have to be around 25% more expensive.
I still think it's just a way to get food that costs more.
Less organic food is produced, so less of it is available, so the price is higher.
It's more expensive, and I see no benefit.
If there is some small upside to avoiding a little bit of pesticide for health reasons, it's likely too small to notice given the massive number of chemicals that enter the body from car exhaust, lotions, off-gassing of polymers, plasticizers etc.
The main thing to know is that there is no nutritional or health difference between "organic", GMO, and conventional foods.
The only significant difference is that "organic" is, on average, about twice as expensive.
Ultimately, if you have the money, you should buy all your veggies organic.
Meat as well, but that is far more expensive.
Zero benefit, extra cost.
And "organic" uses plenty of pesticides.
Some of them rather nasty.
However, we, the consumers, count only the “internal price”, which is the price we pay directly.
That's the reason behind these not finding a market, besides the fact that these are pricey.
There is zero nutritional advantage to buying organic.
It’s just more expensive.
If I could afford it I would probably buy all veggies and fruits organic buy for now I just avoid some fruits and veggies that can't get organic or substitute them with something less toxic: <URL>" Cheers ;-)
Luckily for me at least the hit on the wallet has diminished somewhat so I usually buy organic food when I can get it.
In some places the prices for organic products can be more than 200% of the nonorganic product prices.
Sorry, dear, but multiple studies (unfortunately for you, even ones sponsored by the big money in organics) have shown zero difference.
It's sad that you buy into the marketing scheme of a conglomerate just desperate to have you pay three times as much for the same product, but that's what you're doing.
Maybe because the idea that "organic" food has no pesticides is complete rubbish.
They use plenty of pesticides, often more toxic than conventional crops.
So many people think "organic" means "no pesticides" that it's sad.
They've all been deceived.
There appears to me to be a tendency to steer clear of the subject of pesticide residues and only mention nutritional content, rather than engage with the topic and try to argue that organic food contains equal or more pesticide residues as conventional, as you seem to be saying.
In America, at least, they use lots of them, some of which are more toxic than "conventional".
And if that still matters to you, then why do you not object to the chemicals on the list of approved organic pesticides?
Too much chemical products (organic chemical products are still chemical products...), too little care, bad practices as to when you ship them, how you keep them from spoiling... On the other side, my grandfather used to take care of his garden.
Organic labeling does not denote no pesticide or herbicide.
It's your personal choice, I wouldn't recommend going organic for you though, since the growing of organic vegetables do rely on fertilizers coming from natural sources (i.e.
Many people may disagree with this, but organic foods isn't a necessary.
Even organic foods aren't 100% pure of chemicals.
Some have more waxy coating, others have absolutely none.
Organic fruits are, probably, coated with pesticides too - organic ones or non-organic, but in a relatively small amount.
You might eat some bugs, since no pesticide is used...
This happened to me with some organic broccoli a few years back.
Yuck, no thank you.
Effect of milk type and processing on iodine concentration of organic and conventional winter milk at retail: Implications for nutrition .
It wouldn't be a big surprise to me if this were true, since organic agriculture limits nutrient inputs.
But since there's no nutritional advantage to organic, why buy it?
But the downside of organic farming is that it cannot yeild equal to the conventional farming system hence it can't fulfill the food demand of the population.
Hence though a good thing, organic farming alone in the long run can't ensure food security for India.
The output from organic farming is low.
The yeild is lesser due to usage of bulky, less nutrient concentrated organic manures.
Seeing the existing pressure on land it is highly unlikely that the output from organic farming will be able to keep up with the growing population’s food demand.
Organic anything really isn't any different than the alternative.
There's a lot of confusing information about organic food.
Organic doesn't really denote anything meaningful.
Don't worry about organic versus others.
People who say we could never feed the world organically tend to look at the current consumption patterns and extrapolate from that.
More people on the farm would mean less of other things (i.e.
Labor costs: organic agriculture requires more manual work.
that in some cases organic farming was actually 14 times more energy intensive?
There are sources that say organic carrots are not statistically different from conventionally grown ones: that in measures of sugar, fiber, nutrients, they are the same.
Little evidence of health benefits from organic foods, Stanford study finds
Organic food is not more nutritious.
Systematic review finds no difference in nutritional value of organic vs. conventional foods
And if that meat is organic you will have the same nutritional benefits, no difference between organic and conventional meat.
I believe they allow organic meats to have been fed GMO feedstock, however.
Also, there is no proof that organic food is any better for you.
If you do care about your health don't push your luck on organic peanut butter!
Even I fell for it last week by choosing an organic soy yogurt only to realise that it had half of my daily sugar intake in one small pot!!!
On top of that, certain health bars claim 'organic' but are filled to the brim with 'organic' cane sugar, 'organic thickeners', 'organic wheat syrup' etc.....most contain more than your daily sugar needs in one massive hit.
Try some actual scientists: No Health Benefits from Organic Food
Compared to non-organic, exactly zero.
And many people, up until 150 years ago, died of diseases exacerbated by malnutrition- so "organic" wasn't necessarily helping matters.
It's ALL "organic".
Never heard of an "inorganic" cow, pug, radish, soybean.
If I were a robot, I would eat all the inorganic shit I could (with a special attraction to, well, magnets).
Organic is disgusting.
Anyone who trusts anything labeled as organic is either misinformed, or they just like the taste of feces.
I think the word organic alone has effectively lost meaning, however, if you are talking about USDA certified organic products, that means it is certified to have been grown within certain restrictions that prohibit certain items.
I wouldn't want to eat the liver of an organically raised animal any more than that of another animal.
I, personally, would not be interested as I am not deeply invested in the "organic" fad.
I haven’t bought in to the organic veggies yet.
All organic foods are waste of money, scientist worked extremely hard to bring this world to such beautiful level, I will not contribute to take this world to dark ages.
The most fascinating expression of the online business "organic".It is self expected that the online specialists must be very much aware of the best rehearsed SEO traps.
It seems to be a buzzword designed to inspire some confidence in the alleged natural goodness of the product associated with it.
It's a marketing term, not a scientific one.
Any molecule containing carbon is organic.
Getting organic certification and creating market are cumbersome which shows other commercial farms more lucrative.
So ignore the term organic and just compare the physical qualities of the food.
Yes, I understand yield may be less with sustainable or organic, but there could at least be a study.
Many colleagues feel the same so in my experience I don't think we would prefer organic.
Always considering there is no cost difference: why should anyone wants to feed their children with organic food which is in a molecular level exactly the same as any other type of food?
On the other hand, promoting organic food is just taking humanity eventualy to a state o deprivation and famine...
