'Organic' agriculture goes along with that theme, but certified organic is an over-reaction.
If you do, then spend the money if you have it.
I think that yours is an excellent question, and I think the answer, if there is one, depends on which angle you look at.
Let me tell you first why Organic Food is expensive?
Organic food supply is limited as compared to demand; Production costs for organic foods are typically higher because of greater labour inputs per unit of output Post-harvest handling of relatively small quantities of organic foods results in higher costs because of the mandatory segregation of organic and conventional produce, especially for processing and transportation; Marketing and the distribution chain for organic products is relatively inefficient and costs are higher because of relatively small volumes.
In order to trust the Organic Brand you should check the norms (international and national)- like NPOP, USDA, etc - which have set the standards and which conform to these guidelines and certify producers.
Organic farmers can legally use pesticides and many do.
And you can’t blame the farmer- they have to make a living.
Companies selling the largest volume of organics are Wal-Mart, Costco, Kroger, Target, Safeway, and Whole Foods.
Many vegitarians and vegans could probably list many books and websites that explain and show all the horrific things that take place in these factories(these places are not farms) that mass produce beef, pork, chicken etc., but I am neither and will just compare it will organic animal husbandry practices.
Here's the tip offs: Conventional celery is much larger and paler than organically grown.
Organic celery is a nice deep (almost electric) Green because it's gotten lots of sun which stimulates chlorophyll growth, and thus the flavor you and I like.
Also, the opposite of “organic” in the context it is typically used is “conventional”, not “GMO”.
I’m not saying one person can’t have several valid reasons for doing something, but I did not once hear anyone talk about anything than the personal benefits for them.
If you are only interested in the health benefits for you, then it really depends, and is not something that can be answered without a LOT of additional information.
The information I already asked about, but also things like how much money a certain increase in “health” (and what aspects of “health” you are talking about; “health” is a lot of different things all working together) is worth to you.
Very (VERY) simplistically, would one less sick day per lifetime and one more day alive be worth $1,000,000,000,000?
A relatively recent meta study (a study aggregating the results of several different studies) found no benefit: Little evidence of health benefits from organic foods, Stanford study finds .
There is decent evidence to suggest it is no better for your health and actually worse for the environment.
While there may be individual examples of organic farms using the very best practices where the output per acre is higher, if you look at the category of foods labeled USDA organic overall they are an average of 25% less productive based off of a meta analysis of many many different studies (<URL>" I have nothing against the best practices, but honestly those need not be restricted to Organic.
Indeed one leading plant genetic engineer strongly believes we should combine the best of both organic/traditional farming and genetic modification to meet the worlds food demands and lower our environmental impact ( <URL>" ).
Additionally, a very large meta study conducted at Stanford found no health benefits to organic food.
Likewise, places like Whole foods benifit greatly by misleading consumers into thinking their produce is somehow safer and better for the environment and thus can charge MUCH higher prices for foods that are basically identical.
But local and organic food are not synonymous.
Likewise I can get food labelled organic that is flown in from across the world.
I bet you there are some organic farms that are superior to conventional but I'd argue they are the minority.
The foods are proven no more safe and overall are likely worse for the environment.
But again, this isn't about organic but rather about heirloom foods (organic does not mean heirloom varieties).
First of all, "Organic" is a widely used term that is often loosely applied to signify "clean", "natural" or "free of synthesized ingredients".
It kinda means, "less affected by the hand of industry" Conceptually, there's a lot of grey area and the word probably suffers from misuse by anyones' definition.
would mean "Certified Organic" under some public authority.. To be certified it would be cultivated under certain rules and perhap from an inspected farm.
So, while wild berries that you pick might happen to be organic (or they might not, if they come from a ditch along a conventional sprayed farm!
And Certified Organic is farmed, planted, not wild.
And then there are families or companies whose property is legally Certified Organic and they can sell a certified organic Main Wild Blueberry that you could also say was "Wildcrafted"
Equipment for handling corn is readily available in most agricultural areas meaning farmers don't have to buy special equipment to plant, tend or harvest it and can easily share with neighbors.
Organic foods refer to food items that are grown without the use of chemicals, fertilizers or any unnatural interference.
Organic foods refer to all food products that are allowed to grow in their natural surroundings without any human interference or genetic modifications.
Cookifi is one of the leading Organic caterers in Bangalore.
As of now they have 3 full fledged Organic Menus Organic Indian Organic Continental North Indian Organic special Here is a link to their website in case you are curious.
Organic Menus From Cookifi
"Natural" or "organic" pesticides (organic growers all use pesticides, they just use organic ones) can be just as safe/harmless as synthetic ones.
Whether the pesticide was organic or not would not matter.
Third, if the organic chemical is weaker, it will be applied in a higher dose and more frequently.
The organic equivalent, that also leaves no residues and is equally effective as an herbicide, is Pharm Solutions Weed Pharm, made of 20% acetic acid (concentrated vinegar).
If you are a grower, look at the labels on the pesticide and decide for yourself if it is toxic or not, but pay no heed to buzzwords like "natural," "organic," or "synthetic" that have no bearing on safety of efficacy, period.
Organic food used to be produced by small-scale farmers who grew incredibly high quality produce without using any toxic chemicals.
In the last 15 years that has changed and organics is now largely out of control of farmers and firmly in the hands of the certifying bodies (such as the USDA in america) and the huge companies that have largely taken over the organic food market.
Here is a bit of a catch up on the current state of the union when it comes to organic food.
The USDA published their guidelines for organic certification in 2000 and Horizon (along with many other huge food operations) saw massive profits to be made and switched their cows to organic feed, stopped giving them hormones and hey presto they were now organic certified.
They were now on an even playing field on store shelves with more legitimate companies like Organic Valley which was a co-operative of smaller farms that were operated much more like what we all imagine an organic dairy farm to look like.
I could give countless other examples of companies that did similar things such as Cascadian farms, and the Hain Celestial group.
Organic Standards are massively different in different countries.
Other farming practices suffer from the same arbitrariness between nations.
Multibillion-dollar companies are now heavily invested in organic foods.
These include Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland, Whole Foods, and The Coca-Cola Company amongst many others.
As a result of being stakeholders in organic standards they lobby the certifying bodies whenever organic standards come under periodic review.
In many cases these companies have campaigned to weaken organic standards and allow conventional farming practices to creep into their operations and still get the all-important organic label.
It is not that these companies are evil it's just that organic farming is inherently more costly than conventional farming.
Their economic incentives are to try to reduce the costs of organic farming while still commanding the higher price that an organic label will get them.
** You have to do your research though and look at organic certification as the baseline minimum standard rather than the final word on food safety.
If you have farmer's markets in your area I highly recommend going to them and getting to know farmers in your area.
Ask them if they actually grow the food they are selling or if they are a reseller.
Ask them if they grow organically.
Check out Food Babe who for all the controversy surrounding her is one of the most effective campaigners to hold companies' feet to the fire in terms of food safety.
You may or may not agree with everything she says but her guides are a good start to educating yourself about food ingredients.
It's illegal to say its organic if it isn't.
Look for the word organic.
If you are staying for a while or emigrating here, consider using an organic box scheme.
If you are holidaying, look for either the COOP or Waitrose supermarkets for the largest organic and fair trade variety.
Fair trade is partly organic too by the way, as it bans certain nasty pesticides etc, just not as many, and also has high animal welfare standards.
Ps you can google for organic pubs and restaurants too!
In other words, people are not yet eating food the way Earth delivers it to us.
One thing though, in the hopes of justifying their price, 'organic' farms try to harvest their products later than conventional farms, meaning the fruit can be tastier than an early harvest.
The harvest conditions are possible as 'organic' farms are usually much smaller in scale, allowing the farmer to harvest just so and shipped off.
"Organic food" IS the normal condition!
Craig, I've been eating organic vegan food for decades.
Is Organic More Nutritious?
USDA But you need to be intelligent about it.
Save mart, key foods market, piggly wiggly, local organic stores!
'Organic' in food context is a marketing label construct that creates a commercial advantage in sales compared to what is called conventionally farmed food (99 % of farming in the US).
However, there is something a bit generic and bland about enhanced fruits and vegetables and something inherently original about their organic variants.
Organic produce is often (but not always, so watch where it is from) produced on smaller farms near where it is sold.
Organic food is GMO-free .
All organic produce are nutritionally equal in terms of vitamin profiles.
Yes, this is the same in the other plants, but organics start out at that higher level, skyrocketing final readings.
EVen with natural pesticides, organics are not fully protected and spend a lot of their valuable time making more self-defense toxins.
The variations between organic and traditional foods stem directly from the farming ways that were used throughout the food’s production.
Agriculture includes a direct result on the environment, therefore understanding what goes into our agriculture is vital.
Below may be a list of a number of the key variations between organic and traditional farming.
There square measure several different variations between organic and traditional farming, however these appear to be the foremost spoken of with regard to client health.
There are arguments around whether or not or not typical farming ways square measure safe for one’s health.
I can't find any data to check if we have enough natural resources everywhere to sustain organic farming at the level of conventional farming.
They'll need constant guidance from specialists in agricultural resource management.
Organic farmers, on the other hand, must learn to manage an entire ecosystem geared to producing food—controlling pests through biological means, using the waste from animals to fertilize fields and even growing one crop amidst another.
An organic farmer "needs to create a fertile soil that provides sufficient nutrients at the right time when the crops need them.
Food security is not only a question of the ability to produce food, but also of the ability to access food.
Global food production is more than enough to feed the global population, the problem is getting it to the people who need it.
Organic agriculture and food security.
Still, many questions are asked with regards to the ability of organic agriculture to provide food - and many speculations are made, without any comprehensive data basis.
He has more knowledge about agriculture than me.
Price totally depends on current supply level on the market, and whatever super-food fad is circulating amongst consumers.
So you need to find your own local ways of using organic principles for cost reduction by using free materials available to you locally.
It is good that you are thinking business right from start, though.
But, Why is it so expensive in India?
India may account for 1 - 2% of the total organic produce worldwide.
One of the main reason for organic products so expensive in India , is that the local market is not the target market for the organic farmers in India .
Because, India exports 85% of its organic produce .
Organic farmers in India eye the global market rather than the local market. "
Around 60 per cent of the country’s organic products were exported to the European Union, 20 per cent to the US, 5 per cent to Japan and the rest to Canada, Australia and East Asian countries. "
Few years ago, I read that organic tender coconut was priced at Rs.200 ($5 then), in an export market.
So I would say, the price factor for Indian organic produce is highly influenced by the lucrative global market, rather than anything else.
References: Greening Agriculture in India- An Overview of Opportunities & Constraints Organic Farming In India Achieving a Sustainable Food System with Organic Farming Page on Www Organic Farming Finds a Growing Fan Base in India India eyes organic food exports of $1 bn
If more and more people switch to organic farming then price might come down coz of the lower demand which will lead to abandoning organic farming again.
Some of the copper salts they use in organic crops to spray against insects may also accumulate in your body, but not as much as if you paid no attention to food quality.
Organic is a term that certifies an agricultural standard, intended to be free from antibiotics, herbicides and pesticides.
Kalgudi - Helping everyone across the globe with agricultural information You might think organic food would cost less than conventional food since the production is spared the cost of the chemicals, synthetic pesticides, and antibiotics.
Without them, organic farmers have to hire more workers for tasks like hand-weeding, cleanup of polluted water, and the remediation of pesticide contamination.
Post-harvest handling cost In order to avoid cross-contamination, organic produce must be separated from conventional produce after being harvested.
Egg color only depends on the breed of chicken, not whether the egg is organic.
1) Multicropping is mandatory in organic as crops complement each other and some crops are used as bait to indicate pest attacks early.
6) Livestock is essential for organic farming, which serves as short term income generators as well as insurance for the farmers for urgent needs.
Organic agricultural methods are internationally regulated and legally enforced by many nations, based in large part on the standards set by the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM).
There are many companies which promotes organic farming “Terragreen”.
As per my knowledge in India every State has hundreds of organic farmers.
As I am citizen of Chhattisgarh then Adoption And Certification Of Organic Farming "Chhattisgarh"is required for that.
Supply of organic certified Bio-fertilizers and Bio-pesticides.
To improve the skill of farmers for adoption of Organic Farming.
We produce 100% organic food from our extensive organic farms, besides being aided by organic farming communities across India.
An organic, fair trade, locally sourced, etc., hamburger chain is probably a lot worse for health and environment than a GM watermelon.
Dr. Benbrook’s research has established that organically grown vegetables and fruits contain higher levels of nutrients than their conventional counterparts.
Within these studies, 236 valid matched pairs (or types) of measurements were identified which included both conventional and organic food samples.
There were 135 study-crop combinations covered in the 97 studies; within these 97 studies, 94 were identified as valid, where there were good comparisons between conventional and organic food.
The levels of 11 nutrients were compared in the matched pairs.
In 145 of the 236 matched pairs (61%), the organic foods were more nutrient dense.
Nutrient levels were on average 31% or more higher in organic foods than conventional in 25% of the study samples.
Across all 236 matched pairs and 11 nutrients, the nutritional premium of the organic food averaged 25%.
Antioxidants Numerous studies have found higher levels of antioxidants in organic produce than in conventional.
Organic tomatoes contained 79% and 97% higher levels of quercetin and kaempferol, respectively, in a long-term study conducted at the University of California – Davis (Mitchell AE et al., 2007).
An Italian research team seeking to create a test to distinguish between organic and conventional oranges found that vitamin C levels were higher in organic oranges (Tarozzi et al., 2006).
Organic red wines contain higher levels of resveratrol, polyphenols and other antioxidants (Di Renzo et al., 2007).
Benbrook’s team found that, in general, organically grown produce contains 30% higher levels of antioxidants than conventional produce.
In other words, plants need stress from pests, do not need agricultural fertilizers heavy in nitrogen and do need to grow at their own life cycle’s pace to produce the healthiest, more antioxidant-rich fruits and leaves (Benbrook et al., 2008).
no.... but it also depends on what "organic" means.
Plants obtain their nutrients from the soil they grow in.
I do not trust the Government to regulate anything so companies and individuals need to self regulate so that consumers have trust in what they are purchasing.
What they’re not permitted to use is synthetic pesticides and herbicides.
Really, the only reason why people don’t realize this (or believe it if the facts are laid bare) is because of their atavistic response to the idea of synthetic chemicals and the idea that that makes them inherently harmful and that anything natural is inherently good.
It's debatable how much of this is related to the political image maintenance of organic food, and how much is because it's merely possible since organic is still a smaller subset of the overall food market.
Undeniably, it's one of the most risky industries .
Whole Foods successfully competes mainly by having a wider selection of foods that are perceived to be healthy.
It is wise to double check the current Clean 15 list at regular intervals, as the foods on the list are subject to change with growing methods and seasonal production.
Clean 15 OnionsAvocadoSweet Corn *(watch for GMO)PineappleMangoSweet Peas (frozen)EggplantCauliflowerAsparagusKiwiCabbagePapayas *(watch for GMO)GrapefruitSweet PotatoesCantaloupe * A small amount of sweet corn, papaya and summer squash sold in the United States is produced from GE seed stock.
That's not ethical: scaring people for no reason, and at a cost of billions to enforce the label law, helps no one except the organic farmers and corporations like Whole Foods.
It's great if GMO-free products want to voluntarily label themselves as GMO-free or organic.
I exclusively eat organic when ever possible.
A typical organic crop is 2% or more GMO DNA.
Genetically modified produce cannot be labeled organic, hybrids or crosses that do not involved laboratory manipulations of the genes are not commonly considered Genetically Modified, they are usually referred to as hybrids or by their varietal name.
Try some of the following: 1) When it comes to organic produce, buy in season or buy frozen.
Learn to stock your freezer when the prices are low for the later months.
Doing this can cut out the middleman and save you a bunch.
Do a quick trawl on the internet for your favorites.
3) Make friends with your local farmer's market.
Take a look around and see if you have a nearby farmer's market.
Additionally, you can ask them about other items you're looking for.
This can be tough if you're living in a small apartment, but it's worth clearing the extra room to purchase in bulk when you can.
Suggest finding a local grower/farmer who will sell you their organic fruit and vegetables - and hopefully their grass-fed, free-range meat and poultry too.
Your local grower is likely to have less mark up on their organic goods than the big stores and they will probably provide delivery as well, which is saving you even more money.
You want to maximise the life of your organic stash.
All food is organic.
I think you might be confusing a farm method and organic certification.
My dad grew up on a farm in China, and as my sister and I grew up, it seemed only natural that we should take advantage of his expertise, and grow our own organic food (rather than source it from overpriced groceries).
Ironically, that’s even truer with industrial organics, which have optimized to produce the same look and taste.
Something grown locally, with fewer pesticides and pre-industrial fertilizers, are likely to be smaller and uglier.
Twelve years later, by the end of 2015, all Sikkim’s farms were certified organic by an independent certifying body.
The Sikkim Organic Mission Project, the state’s organic policy, spread awareness about why, what, and how the mission would be accomplished.
Organic farming was added as a subject in school.
Farmers attended required training on organic farming led by organic experts and scientists.
The Sikkim government helped make organic seeds and manures more available, helped farmers market their produce, and even sent some farmers outside the state for advanced training.
But could the best way to preserve our water supplies, be with organic farming?
But experts say the way to make organic food cheap is to get everybody on board.
One entrepreneur in India who has experience in agriculture put it like this: “What happens ordinarily in organic is that a retailer deals with small quantities from a wide range of farmers.
When a state is 100% organic, then the costs that go into segregating, packaging, labeling, and differential pricing, are saved.
In fact some of the most toxic substances known to man are found in nature.
You can of course find local organic farms that use no pesticides whatsoever, just don’t expect to find their produce on the shelf at Safeway, because the food will not be all that attractive to your average consumer.
Perhaps food is the best organic medicine.
While you get 100 units production of organic tomatoes, you get 1000 units of tomatoes with pesticide planting, which protect the plant against plagues.
And, the durability and sensivity of organic foods makes it harder to transport and conservate.
Can't be made in bulk, so costs go up.
Is made in bulk, yet majority of the product expires, so expired products are migrated into the cost of organic inventory, raising the prices.
In other words, you're paying for the risk the business owner goes through the provide an organic product.
It is true that the Authenticity of organic products - whether it is organic or not - is difficult to trust, but more than that, I believe it is more important for us to understand the meaning of 'organic' rather than it just being defined by some 'regulatory' board.
There is also a lot of assumption on how we actually come to the conclusion that the seller or the farmer might have bribed the so called 'regulatory board' for organic certification.
Legally, there is nothing as organic which exists - at least, in India.
has a few clauses which can be used to question the seller in case and sue in case you find out the product they are selling is not what they claim it to be - however, there is no clear definition of the word organic.
However, despite the absence of regulations - the picture is not as grim - thanks to the organic movement.
There are norms(international and national)- like NPOP, BioSuisse, USDA, - which have set the standards for someone who wants to go organic (From conventional) - and there are agencies (mostly private) which conform to these guidelines and certify producers based on a fee.
Also, for a country like India, where there are many farmers who have very small land holdings and not good access to information and funds - it might never be possible for many farmers to get the certification despite having organic practices in their farming (I personally know 4 such farmers who practice organic just because they believe in it and they do not find it important for someone else to 'certify' their produce)... For this too, there is a low cost certification method which exists - called PGS (Participatory guarantee scheme) .
Though PGS is not recognized by the certifying agencies - some of the best organic farmer groups I know in India are PGS certified.
To answer how organic food can be made cheap?
I know some families in my town have tied up with farmers close to us and they have made an agreement with them to buy from them - and they also participate in planning their sowing... consult them on organic practices..
In a normal 'big city' situation too, there are ways through which you can be more assured of someone's claim to be organic or not.
Ask the seller for the source (which farmer, which village) - if there is a certification - which agency has certified (some of the most trusted names are IMO, EcoCert, CU, Vaidik, Lacone.. and many others too 2.
Organic brands - if they want to build trust - should either show certification or should be completely transparent - to the extent of percentage of price going to the farmers - visits to the farmer group
I also think there are good answers here: What are the biggest misconceptions about organic food?
And finally, I'll build off what Bruce Ames has to say about all the worries about chemicals (and organic food).
We're eating natural pesticides, which are natural chemicals that plants use to try to kill off insects that try to eat them.
And we eat roughly 1,500 milligrams of them per day.
We eat 0.09 milligrams of synthetic pesticide residues.
So we're talking about incredibly tiny amounts of synthetic pesticides, and yet the same percentage of natural chemicals come out positive.
He also mentions organic foods, calling it "nonsense" from a consumer health standpoint, though he does allude that for agricultural workers, it can be important.
If you're shopping in the Western world, you can be confident your food is pretty safe, no matter what you eat.
All vegetables are really organic in the strict chemical definition of that term, but if you mean have been grown with our using synthetic pesticides or fertiliser, then it depends where you live.
Certainly in the UK and Germany and probably in the EU generally, there are very strict rules and you can not legally market your product as organic if you have not adhered to them.
I do not believe that the term organic has a strict legal definition and as such it would probably depend on which state you were in.
The term Organic is protected by the USDA at the federal level in much the same fashion as in the EU.
Individual states sometimes have additional standards or requirements, but in general follow the lead of the federal government.
The standards in the US are part of the National Organic Program (NOP) and are strictly regulated.
As an organic farmer, I cannot use the "O" word to describe my produce or practices unless I acquire organic certification.
"Organic" is only part of the picture - you have to be aware of country of origin and practices in that country.
In case the question changes, the one I answered was: “Is there a significant difference in the environmental impacts of organic vs GMO agricultural practices?”
Studies show there is no significant different in the nutritional value of organic food compared to non-organic.
Many organic dairy products available in the market are either UHT or treated some how to ensure longer shelf life.
Here's a great example for a genuine certified organic FRESH milk from UK'Darlington Farms' by Acorn Dairy.
It is certified Organic by the UK Soil Association, Red Tractor certified - UK’s recognised farm and quality food assurance scheme.
This question probably makes the assumption that organic food has quality or health benefits.
I lay them out in my post here: Organic vs conventional food Quality-wise, people may argue they can taste the difference.
In this regard organic pesticides are no more benign than conventional , you can see comparisons with conventional and organic pesticides and other everyday chemicals in a table in this post: The dose makes the poison.
It turns out, when they looked at natural vs synthetic chemicals in general, researchers have come to the conclusion that natural or not does not make a big difference.
There are many pesticides that are used by both conventional and organic growers.
Some are approved for use until almost immediately before harvest.
Unfortunately, I learned that this new testing program is only there to encourage compliance with the organic rules, not to document anything about relative residue levels.
Meanwhile, what would be best for the environment were to only choose to buy organic for those crops where yield is not much lower (lower yields = more wasted resources), or even higher than conventional.
In case you are looking for ways in which you can get healthy vegetables for yourself and your family, then all you need to do is start organic vegetable gardening in your premises.
Organic vegetable gardening is easy to do, cost-effective and provides you with vegetables which are oozing with nutrients.
There is zero health or nutritional benefit to be gained by spending twice what you need to on organic.
Therefore, saying fruits are coated in pesticides would be a gross overstatement.
Source: Food Safety - National Pesticide Information Center Some of the sensible practices they mention include: Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables to minimize the potential of increased exposure to a single pesticide.
Scrub firm fruits and vegetables, like melons and root vegetables.
Organic Tomatoes According to a 10-year study conducted by the University of California, Davis, organic tomatoes are produced in an environment that has a lower nutrient supply since nitrogen-rich chemical fertilizers are not added.
Health Benefits Of Organic Food In general, organic food consumers, manufacturers, and farmers strongly believe that organic food has the following benefits compared to conventional food.
In order to keep crops from being attacked by the natural world, including bugs, pesticides are required.
CLA is a heart-healthy fatty acid that can boost cardiovascular protection, and it is found in higher quantities in breast milk and in meat for animals that have been raised free range or cage-free.
On an overall basis, organic food is food prepared and processed without using any chemicals.
That is, organic food production does not involve the use of chemical fertilizers, chemical pesticides, or chemical preservatives.
Organic food can be identified with the help of an organic logo on the packet.
It is illegal to sell non-organic food with an organic label.
While the regulations vary from country to country, in the U.S., organic crops must be grown without the use of synthetic pesticides, bioengineered genes (GMOs), petroleum-based fertilizers, and sewage sludge-based fertilizers.
Finally Its one’s choice what they prefer to consume.
I agree with the answers that have already been given, but with one caveat.
You can still get fresh food, organic or not, but in the 1950's it would have been more commonplace that any given diner dealt with fresher ingredients.
That's going to produce a bigger taste difference from typical supermarket beef than organic beef that's been finished (fattened) on organic corn.
That's going to taste much the same as regular supermarket milk.
Some organic products happen to also be locally-grown, grass-fed, etc.
There may be environmental reasons to prefer the organic, but I think they’re hard to quantify.
If there's a taste difference it has nothing to do with the food being "organic".
But some "organic" farms also have practices that can lead to prettier or tastier food.
It's not a guarantee.
No, not all food is organic, and a thoughtful and thorough answer will take longer than I have on my phone battery.
Organic farming requires natural solutions to these issues.
Preying mantises to eat destructive aphids, pulling weeds from the ground, and manure for fertilizer.
But, I think what you may be after is that the margins are slightly better but narrowing compared to conventional techniques.
I have a neighbor who sells 'hand raised' organic muscovy ducks to white cloth restaurants at twice the margin he gets at the farmer's market.
You are unlikely to find shops selling organic produce in UP (NOIDA is the only likely place).
Asking around at farms is the only other possibility, but then organic farming is yet to make inroads.
Apart from the organic food hopefully being produced according to a policy on which agricultural techniques are allowed in its production.
Which doesn’t affect nutrition, usually, but might have an impact on ecology and residues of pesticides, antibiotica etc.. That said, many ‘organic’ certificates are not very strict, politely put.
Not worth the paper they’re printed on, to be more blunt about it.
There are grants given for organic production research and farmers who are organic in their methods can enroll in "government programs".
A farmer growing organic corn can sign up for programs that all corn growers can sign up for.
Chipotle claims using "food with integrity" but does not claim that all their sources are organic or non GMO.
It's not like there's any nutritional difference between organic, non-organic, GMO and non-GMO foods.
As Ryan Carlyle explains, the use of pesticides and fertilizers doesn't appear to affect nutritive value.
New Study Adds To The Evidence .
First, ripeness affects content.
Second, choice of variety has systematic effects on nutritional content.
If your "organic" produce is also "heirloom," you are eating more nutritious food.
)Overall, if you're very selective about what locally grown organic heirloom produce you buy, you could definitely get more "bang for your bite."
If this matters to you, feel free to pay the price premium that organic milk provides.
I also wonder if organic food is overpriced or is all conventional supermarket foods underpriced.
Organic milk tends to be UHT pasteurized because it was shipped so far; there used to be relatively few organic dairies.
You can get UHT conventional milk (sometimes even on the shelves next to the dried and evaporated milk), but for the most part UHT and organic go hand in hand.
This condition is called “pica.” Cattle experiencing pica are deficient in minerals including phosphorus, sodium and potassium.
That is no fault of the farmer either if there’s plenty of bugs or bug parts found in their feed!
All other animal by-products like blood meal, bone meal, and fish meal are prohibited due to BSE (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy or Mad Cow Disease) concerns.
Generally, cows in the US are fed alfalfa, corn grain, corn silage (the whole corn chopped, packed and fermented in a concrete pit), timothy, tall fescue (endophyte-free), orchard grass, perennial/annual ryegrass, millet, sorghum-sudan, sorghum, etc.
Generally any feed that is high in nutrients for energy, protein, and calcium are great for feeding dairy cows.
By-products fed to dairy cows include soybean meal, canola meal, dried distiller’s grains (DDGs), brewer’s yeast, cull potatoes, cull edible beans and peas, bakery products/waste, soybean hulls, etc.
There are actually a lot of by-products out there that contain a significant amount of protein and energy to meet the nutritional needs of dairy cows without having to purchase by-products derived from animals.
Many dairy farms in Canada have to do that because unlike the United States, chicken and table waste are also prohibited from being fed to cattle for the same concerns with BSE.
There is very little difference between organic vs. conventional dairy production.
The only difference is use of antibiotics (when cows are sick and as ionophores in the feed) and somatic growth hormone (rBST sold as Posilac) in conventional cows, and that conventional cows can consume feeds raised with the use of pesticides and commercial fertilizers.
Organic cows must be on feed that was organically raised, and sick cows treated with anything that is not a conventional drug).
Basically the brands that are sold are those brands that purchase milk from the dairy farmers that raise the cows to give milk.
They have different farms they source from, and those farms are generally independent from those companies.
Organic operations implement preventive practices based on site-specific risk factors, such as neighboring conventional farms or shared farm equipment or processing facilities.
For example, some farmers plant their seeds early or late to avoid organic and GMO crops flowering at the same time (which can cause cross-pollination).
Others harvest crops prior to flowering or sign cooperative agreements with neighboring farms to avoid planting GMO crops next to organic ones.
Farmers also designate the edges of their land as a buffer zone where the land is managed organically, but the crops aren’t sold as organic.
Any shared farm or processing equipment must be thoroughly cleaned to prevent unintended exposure to GMOs or prohibited substances.
Roughly 4-5% of US food sales are organic according to the Organic Trade Association (OTA) and old data from the USDA (at Organic Market Overview).
I'm unable to open your first link about pesticides used on organic crops.
Rotenone has been phased out in the USA, although it may still be found in other countries.
Country of origin is very important in choosing organic food, partly because of how strictly standards are followed, but also because of the quality of the water supply used to grow the food.
My understanding is that the pesticides that are actually commonly used in organic farming in the USA are far less toxic than many of the synthetic pesticides.
Can you show any evidence that an organic diet results in significant pesticide residues in the human body?
I don’t eat organic food but I always choose free range eggs.
It's personal choice, but I'd say that if you were weighing up your decision on going organic, then don't base it on nutrient density alone.
Despite decades of testing, no evidence exists that any of these categories is healthier or less or more nutritious than the other [barring GMOs specifically made to be more nutritious like Golden Rice, but that should be obvious].
Despite decades of testing, no evidence exists that any of these categories is more likely to cause cancer, allergies, autism, food poisoning, death, or anything else.
On the contrary, we have evidence that some risks are equal.
The definitions of "organic," "conventional," and "GMO" has and will continue to change over time and national borders, among other factors.
A chemist will say anything is organic.
A strict Jainist will say all agriculture is evil.
That each of these is equally associated with multinational companies… and with nonprofit organizations, universities, governments, and other researchers who will make no profits from any product and are just trying to save the world as best as they can.
I often travel in the US and always buy organic foods there.
I also recently traveled to Europe and bought organic food as much as I could.
Organic food is GMO-free.
Furthermore one of the stipulations of a food being organic in the United States was that an organic food could have been genetically modified in a lab so it is in it's most natural state.
Same thing with organic.
Then they are probably charging as close to their margins as possable.
If a busness is using the word Organic cynically, without staying true to the principals of Organic farming, then they are probably making a bucketload.
For example almost all honey's can be labelled organic.
But nobody can really know what a bee is getting its necter from.
(There are some exceptions to this, Manuka honey from NZ for example.)
So I wouldn't pay any extra for organic honey.
Organic farming may be a methodology of crop and placental mammal production that involves far more than selecting to not use pesticides, fertilizers, genetically changed organisms, antibiotics and growth hormones.
Organic production may be a holistic system designed to optimize the productivity and fitness of numerous communities inside the agro-ecosystem, together with soil organisms, plants, placental mammal and other people.
The principal goal of organic production is to develop enterprises that ar property and harmonious with the setting.
Organic residues and nutrients created on the farm ar recycled back to the soil.
Cover crops and composted manure are accustomed maintain soil organic matter and fertility.
Integrated pest and weed management, and soil conservation systems are valuable tools on an organic farm.
Organically approved pesticides include “natural” or other pest management products included in the Permitted Substances List (PSL) of the organic standards.
The Permitted Substances List identifies substances permitted for use as a pesticides in organic agriculture.
All grains, forages and protein supplements fed to livestock must be organically grown.
The organic standards generally prohibit products of genetic engineering and animal cloning, synthetic pesticides, synthetic fertilizers, sewage sludge, synthetic drugs, synthetic food processing aids and ingredients, and ionizing radiation.
Prohibited products and practices must not be used on certified organic farms for at least three years prior to harvest of the certified organic products.
Livestock must be raised organically and fed 100 per cent organic feed ingredients.
Organic farming presents many challenges.
Some crops are more challenging than others to grow organically; however, nearly every commodity can be produced organically.
The retail organic food market in Canada is estimated at over $1.5 billion in 2008 and $22.9 billion in the U.S.A. in 2008.
It is estimated that imported products make up over 70 per cent of the organic food consumed in Canada.
Canada also exports many organic products, particularly soybeans and grains.
The Canadian Organic Farmers reported 669 certified organic farms in Ontario in 2007 with over 100,000 certified organic acres of crops and pasture land.
This is an annual increase of approximately 10 per cent per year in recent years.
About 48 per cent of the organic cropland is seeded to grains, 40 per cent produces hay and pasture and about five per cent for certified organic fruits and vegetables.
Why Farm Organically?
The main reasons farmers state for wanting to farm organically are their concerns for the environment and about working with agricultural chemicals in conventional farming systems.
Why Buy Organic?
Consumers purchase organic foods for many different reasons.
In 2007 it was estimated that over 60 per cent of consumers bought some organic products.
Approximately five per cent of consumers are considered to be core organic consumers who buy up to 50 per cent of all organic food.
Err, I’d go with organic.
Every field needs fertilizer organic or synthetic and or micro nutrients.
What is organic farming?
Lets define exactly what “organic farming” means.
It really boils down to what “organic” methods are being used to produce food, fiber, energy.
Organic food is produced without using most conventional pesticides; fertilizers made with synthetic ingredients or sewage sludge; bioengineering; or ionizing radiation.
Before a product can be labeled ‘organic,’ a Government-approved certifier inspects the farm where the food is grown to make sure the farmer is following all the rules necessary to meet USDA organic standards.
Companies that handle or process organic food before it gets to your local supermarket or restaurant must be certified, too.” Consumer Brochure, USDA National Organic Program.
(Or in the case of animal husbandry, organic non-GMO corn and soy is substituted for conventionally raised corn and soy and no antibiotics/hormones used.)
Others have termed this Organic 101, or phase 1 organic, the bare minimum basics.
Definition #2 “Organic agriculture is an ecological production management system that promotes and enhances biodiversity, biological cycles and soil biological activity.
It is based on minimal use of off-farm inputs and on management practices that restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony.” USDA National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) definition, April 1995 This definition more closely resembles what organic meant prior to the government and the certification boards taking control.
And much faster than “substitution organic”.
Others have called this Organic 201 or phase 2 Organic.
It is what most people think of when they use the term “organic” as it applies to food, even if what they really are getting is definition #1 above.
This organic usually sustainable , but not always, mainly due to externalities.
You might find “Organic”, “Beyond Organic”, “Biointensive”, “EcoOrganic”, “EcoAg”, “Permaculture” etc or any number of other newly invented terms all falling under the broader umbrella of “Organic”.
This type of organic is often on the cutting edge and is heavily reliant on systems science, holism and biomimicry.
So some farmers practising this, most notably Joel Salatin and Gabe Brown, don’t even call themselves “organic”.
This is Organic 301 or phase 3 organic.
This is basically the general goal of organic though, no matter what name or definition is used.
Spencer’s is one of those very few reliable online grocery store offering good organic food online.
The store offers wide range of daily need products like fresh fruits & vegetables online, non-veg items, household items and organic food items like organic staples.
Most supermarkets these days carry some organic foods, but if you want more than milk or a couple of smaller items, it helps to go somewhere that specializes.
We used to get deliveries from an organic co-op in Wellington.
Sometimes organic produce sits on the shelves in supermarkets for a long time.
Many Organic Stores offers 24Mantra, which is a leading brand in India.
You can also find list of organic stores in India in OrganicRooster.com
For Organic Farming info Read : HERE.
In India, seeds are considered sacred and still there are people who never sell their seeds but SHARE their seeds with other farmers.
There are various websites for buying organic food online.
Organic crops can only utilize natural IPPM methods and natural fertilizers.
If people demand organic foods, the farmer needs an incentive to grow organic.
Farmers are essentially businessmen.
They grow crops with the intention of making money.
When they consider what to plant, the potential profit is a huge factor in the decision.
Since there are people who demand organic food, the farmer can justify doubling the cost of an organic crop.
What the farmer risks is chemical residue from other fields contaminating his organic crop.
If that happens, it can no longer be considered organic and he loses the price increase without gaining the benefits of the chemicals.
Organic farmers have a pretty stressful job, and they should be compensated for that.
"Organic" pesticides try to take advantage of the "natural" pesticides.
The good reasons revolve around trying to grow the plant in an environment close to the one it evolved in.
And it involves a lot of human labor, not easily mechanized, because mechanization works best in monocultures and the whole point is to avoid monoculture.
That's actual organic farming: the term was coined for the organic farmer , who isn't a machine.
The rest of "organic", as a USDA certified label, is the bad reasons.
They involve adapting the original organic idea and trying to scale it up.
Which, to get back to the point of the question, means taking those "natural" pesticides, concentrating them, and applying them to vast monocultures.
You do need to get over your fear of "chemicals" because it's ALL chemicals.
The industrial versions of organic are slightly less destructive.
After that, the difference between "organic" and regular industrial conventional is minor.
While many people believe that food grown organically is better for you, they may not be able to tell you exactly why it is better for you.
The Farming Systems Trial:registered: The Rodale Institute in Pennsylvania, USA, has been doing research on organic growing practices for over 60 years.
A little over 30 years ago, they decided to do an in-depth comparison study to determine just how beneficial organic farming really is.
The study, known as the Farming Systems Trial:registered:, monitored three different nutrient-adding systems: A manure-based system that adds nutrients with animal manure and cover crops or “green manure.” A legume-based system that improves the soil with legumes or “green manure.” A conventional chemical fertilizer-based system.
Their findings were published in 2011.
The organic manure-based and legume-based system yields were equal to the conventional system under normal growing conditions.
Soil in the areas that were farmed organically was improved overall by the nitrogen-fixing legumes or “green manure” and animal manure.
It retained more moisture for the plants, resulting in less runoff and water pollution.
This increase in moisture retention also contributed to the larger yields during drought conditions.
Economic Impact The positive economic impacts of organic farming practices were made clear with the Farming Systems Trial:registered:.
Manual labor used in organic farming increases employment opportunities, producing 30% more jobs with each hectare of land farmed.
Profits from organically grown crops were either the same as or greater than those from crops grown with conventional methods.
Organic farming techniques, as now practiced, produce on average half as much per acre as conventional crops.
Depending on the crop, the actual yield is 10% to 85% that of a conventionally farmed crop.
At the moment, we can produce just a bit more food than is necessary to feed the current population (using the current mix of organic and conventional farming), but we cannot distribute it effectively to that population, so people starve.
USDA-FDA.com Nutritional Labeling, USDA Label Expeditor, Facility Consultant, UPC Barcodes The USDA defines certain criteria for food sold in the US with the label "Organic".
However, the USDA makes no claims, and in fact states that there is no evidence, to whether or not organic food is healthier, safer, or more nutritious.
Until just a couple of years ago, there was no regulation at all and anyone could call their produce organic.
When eating whole, seasonal and local foods, it is of course better to choose gluten-free IF you are battling or want to avoid health issues such as autoimmunity.
Foreign do-gooders taught sustainable agriculture technique.
I would like to look at it positively as I have the following facts to substantiate the same.I belong to Chennai and we are seeing a big number of organic stores sprouting up in the city.
There are more than 350 new organic stores covering every nook and corner of the city.
Even though they do face issues like scarcity of vegetable and fruit supplies, they are doing good on the groceries part.
We have also seen web portals exclusive for organic products entering the market with heavy investments.
More and more people has started searching for organic and natural alternatives.
The commitment of State as well as Central Governments has been so promising that lot of conventional farmers are now stepping into organic farming practices.
“National Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) is a continuing central sector scheme since 10th Five Year Plan.
The scheme is continuing in the 12th Plan.NPOF is being implemented by National Centre of Organic Farming at Ghaziabad and its six Regional Centres at Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar, Panchkula, Imphal, Jabalpur and Nagpur.
Private Participation is gaining pace in tying up with farmer and farmer producer companies in helping them with the right organic farming practices and promising the farmers a fair price for all their products.
It increase the soil fertility as the soil amendments are use for cultivating organic crop.
Organic farming methods do not involve intensive farming practices like single cropping which is practiced in regular farming.
The pesticides used in organic method of farming is less toxic, is more natural containing nutrients, microbes, etc.
Consider that there are myriad varieties of natural pest control measures used by organic-certified farms including oil-based suffocants, which - granted - are a fair bit more expensive than conventional pesticides, but work equally well.
Remember, you are paying a premium for organic food because of the absence of synthetic fertilisers, chemical sprays, insecticides and pesticides, among other measures.
Nevertheless, organic foods are generally still sprayed for the sake of crop preservation, with substances on an 'permitted' list.
A lot has been made about people eating organic to be healthy but there are a lot of ways to be healthy.
There is only one way to grow food that isn't completely disrespectful to the land and it's through organic practices.
I own and run a small diversified vegetable farm using only organic methods.
I use no artificial pesticides or fertilizers and try to be as sustainable as possible.
Organic certification has largely been co-opted by corporations as a marketing label.
We have clear standards which require certification, something that gives specific meaning to the word organic.
The main place where it really seems to matter is in animal products - dairy and meat.
Grass-fed meat and pastured eggs for example.
Organic growers feed the soil which in turn feeds the plants (through the wondrous and complex activity of microbial soil life).
Another organic method is to introduce companion planting.
It is based on minimal use of off-farm inputs and on management practices that restore, maintain and enhance ecological harmony.” USDA National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) definition, April 1995 This can effect the quality, cost of the food and/or the impact on the environment depending on the methods used.
For more information on that look here: Scott Strough's answer to Is organic food more nutritious?
Scott Strough's answer to Is organic food better for the environment?
Organic food was earlier found only in certain food stores but is now made available in all the supermarkets.
So, if you have that dilemma whether to go for organic or inorganic foods, understanding the facts on organic foods can help you with a right shopping from the next time.
Healthy Organic Food The “organic” is based on the method employed in producing these vegetables, grains, fruits, dairy products and meat.
The main idea behind producing organic foods was to protect the soil and conserve water while reducing pollution.
Nutrient Value It is not certain whether organic foods are more nutritious over the inorganic foods.
More and more shoppers are convinced to buy organic food, and their market is steadily increasing.
Pick those products labeled as “organic” and certified by the USDA (US Department of Agriculture), when you shop through the food lanes this time.
If this seal is not present, then the product is not 100% organic, and might contain very few organic ingredients.
I don't often buy organic foods for a few reasons: The jury's still out on the health benefits of organic food.
"Organic" doesn't necessarily mean fewer pollutants.
And using animal products like manure as fertilizer also carries the risk of disease transmission, so organic produce should still be scrubbed thoroughly before eating it.
That being said, there is one type of food I consistently buy organic: milk.
I buy organic milk because of the widespread use of antibiotics in dairy cows and the increasing threat of antibiotic-resistant microbes in our environment.
But this is a choice I based more on my desire to reduce unnecessary antimicrobial treatment in general rather than any health benefits associated with organic milk.
For more information, see : Organic Food Has No Benefits Over Conventional Food, Says Study Are Organic Foods Safer or Healthier Than Conventional Alternatives?
: A Systematic Review Nutritional quality of organic foods: a syste... [Am J Clin Nutr.
Essentially it means they are using carbon-based chemicals but she had an interesting take on it that came to the same conclusion saying that it definitely does not mean that things labelled organic are better and could even be worse in some ways.
by buying locally-grown organic, which isn't hard to find around here.
In practice organic farming; Avoids the use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides Requires the highest standards of animal welfare Does not permit the use of genetically modified organisms Uses less fossil fuel energy per calorie of food produced Protects our biodiversity by maintaining suitable habitats for plants, animals and wildlife Encourages people to buy their food locally and in season Source : What is organic food ?
In terms of safety or nutrition, there is no difference at all.
Restaurants and food manufacturers should be required to have safe ingredients and that is all.
No special distinction need be made for the source unless they willingly choose to market that in the growing and profitable Organic Food craze.
Most of these are completely harmless in the concentrations we typically encounter.
By the same token many common man made chemicals we use every day for medicinal and industrial uses are perfectly safe and even beneficial in low doses (aspirin for example) but deadly in higher concentrations too.
The question is safety not source.
All food ingredients should be tested and fully researched and in America and Europe we have some of the best standards in the world for testing food additives, ingredients and drugs.
Admittedly America may be a bit slow to act on potential issues but generally they do get there.
We just need more investment in testing the safety of these ingredients.
True, the consensus on safe levels can change.
The main reason most people initially begin going organic in their diets is because of health reasons.
Organics will usually contain essential oils like tea tree, orange, clove leaf etc.
Diatomaceous earth is an organic powder.
People usually think of "organic" as no pesticides or chemical fertilizerrs, but it just has to adhere to a list by Federal regulations.
You'd be surprised at what qualifies as "organic" to the government.
I was production manager at a agricultural chemical manufacturer in arizona for 5 years where we produced organic certified and toxic products.
What's the "organic" fertilizer used in much "organic" farming?
Besides, if it's food, it's organic.
You eat things that are, or once were, alive - and that's what "organic" means.
Growing vegetables using phosphorus that comes from shrimp is no different than growing vegetables using phosphorus that was dug out of some mine - the plant uses the element phosphorus, it doesn't matter where it came from.
Organic foods are defined as those that have been grown without using fertilizers or pesticides.
Most organic farms, in fact must implement strict guidelines to receive their organic certification.
These guidelines are so strict that, for example; farmers may not use any chemically treated wooden stakes when planting; they must keep all machinery free from dust and foreign substances which could contaminate the crops; and must use animal feed that is purely organic in quality.
If any one of these contaminates are found in the crops, it renders the while crop ruined.
Getting organic certification requires food production that can be certified.
Certification requires that growing, storing, processing, packaging, and shipping which include total elimination of such things as chemicals, pesticides; antibiotics; food additives; and such.
Also, the farmland has to be free of chemicals for three years; the farmer must keep detailed records; must maintain physical separation of organic products from non-organic products; must have periodic inspections; and are subject to the same agricultural, and safety regulations which govern non-organic farmers.
It's not necessary to buy all organic fruits and vegetables if cost is an issue.
Here is a list of the Clean 15, ie, fruits and vegetables that bear little to no pesticides: onions avocados sweet corn pineapples mango sweet peas asparagus kiwi fruit cabbage eggplant cantaloupe watermelon grapefruit sweet potatoes sweet onions Then there are the Dirty Dozen, the fruits and vegetables that, if at all possible, should be purchased organic.
They are: celery peaches strawberries apples domestic blueberries nectarines sweet bell peppers spinach, kale and collard greens cherries potatoes imported grapes lettuce If you purchase the Dirty Dozen non-organic, make sure that you wash them really well before eating.
If it is produced safely, can be applied safely, and won't get into the food stuffs beyond a tolerable level, then it's a candidate for organics.
Take care while depending on organic/natural remedies.
As others have said, there are specific programs for organic farmers and there are also programs for farmers markets and various consumer-facing pieces and the largest financial support from the USDA go to hunger relief efforts rather than to farms.
Recently a friend who grows organic commodities was telling me about some of the various government programs that have assisted her.
I gather that organic means the farmer doesn't expose the herd to routine unnecessary antibiotic use, so valuable in avoiding the cow's enteral bacteria developing antibiotic resistance we all so fear.
Because of the longer transit times organic milk is heated to a higher temperature killing all bacteria.
As far as I'm aware, science has not shown a great difference between organic and non-organic foods.
This anecdote really spoke out to me: It sounds all dandy, but one of the girls on that farm had to stop going to English classes because there was too much farm work to do , especially with an organic system.
As such now it is not possible to check whether the produce has come from organic farming or not.
It is not easy to do organic farming because every thing should be organic.
In the present situation to fertilize organic farming you need only organic fertilisers like Fym, vermiculture etc.
But organic crops are fertilized too -- they're just fertilized with stuff like manure and crop waste.
On the other hand, natural fertilizer contains a wider range of plant nutrients than sterile chemical fertilizer does.
Sometimes, organic farmers just care more about the quality of their crops than conventional mass-market farmers.
But perhaps more often, grocery stores buy higher-quality organic produce than conventional produce because the organic stuff is significantly higher-margin and they want you to buy more of it.
But there are some exceptions.
Prudent approach is that we do not always think in terms of 'absolute organic' or vice versa practice.
In case the champions of organic agriculture accept full blast use of genetically engineered crops to be in the 'organic domain' then a host of insecticides, fungicides, weedicides can be dispensed with and large-scale availability of non-toxic food may become a reality for all in the foreseeable future.
"Low Budget" and "Health Food Store" probably don't go together at all!
Co-ops are where a group of people get together and buy their food in bulk, then distribute it, sharing costs - everyone gets it a bit cheaper.
City farms are just what they sound like - a farm, often in your city, where people have grown fruit and vegies and herbs, usually organic.
Often these city farms have a weekly market, but markets are everywhere nowadays and can have the freshest, best quality foods straight from the producers without the markup you see in supermarkets or commercial stores (of course, find a proper market, not a 'trendy' one).
Go for foods as untouched by humans as possible and learn how to make the things you like to eat from scratch.
I encourage anyone to do their own research, check their sources accordingly, and make their own judgements.
I run an organic food company and I agree with most of the points in the source article above.
We make frozen food so I am biased, but I disagree with Sonnet that buying organic frozen food doesn't matter.
If you want to eat organic fresh vegetables, why wouldn't you want to eat organic frozen vegetables?
I make my choices on organic vs non organic based on price and pragmatism.
I'm willing to pay a premium for organic, but not 2x and I am willing to pay a greater premium for vegetables, fruits and berries than I am for nuts and grains.
Meta studies also show no benefits from organic.
Little evidence of health benefits from organic foods, Stanford study finds
Now, given that organic foods aren't very strictly policed, and that most GMOs other than Monsanto corn do release pollen, I would guess that there's some cross breeding here or there.
Organic growers are generally smaller farms.
It's got nothing to do with whether GMO's are safe or organic is better or worse.
Given the large number of crops, cropping systems and possible forms of harm (e.g.
soil erosion, water contamination, carbon efficiency, habitat loss) I feel it's probably a wash.
Organic vegetables and fruit have a sticker on it that begins with a “9”.
Can eating locally, organically hurt the environment?
The most obvious fact, in my opinion, is the average cost of organic food over regular food.
With a quick glance at this chart: Organic Versus Non-Organic; Store Versus Farmers’ Market One can see that the price of organic food is significantly higher, in many cases over 80%.
That study was performed by an openly pro-organic advocacy group.
We should look at science by third parties, not advocacy groups.
Yes: organic farmers can still use herbicides, pesticides, and fungicides so long as they are "organic".
No: organic foods have not been shown to be more nutritious than conventional ones.
Yes: organic foods have been shown to contain significantly less pesticides of all kinds than conventional ones Yes: some pesticides have been shown to be harmful The fact is, we don't know everything about health, and we never will.
However, local food is more nutritious than organic or conventional produce that has been shipped thousands of miles.
On the Gold Coast where I live, we have Flannery's organic supermarket ( <URL>" ) - there are a quite a few locations in South East Queensland.
If you want organic and natural food then Pure Food Essentials is an online supplier of organic food in Australia.
you purchase organic food items at reasonable prices.
You can also find specialist healthfood and organic shops including About Life (Sydney), Aunt Maggies (Melbourne), Harris Farm Market (NSW), Lamana Direct (VIC) and others.
We sell over 1000 different Organic products - Honest to Goodness - Organic Food Delivery | Online Bulk Health Food Shop
They may have bought the organic farms where they source their produce, or started their own organic farms, and would have had to do so on a very large scale.
That is has more of a limited supply than conventional produce?
Organic produce, in my experience, is not more finite than conventional produce, especially with more and more organic farms coming to be.
This can be done both with conventional and organic produce.
Access to organic food.
My food is cheaper than organic food at the store.
The products must have organic certification in order to call themselves as organic.
Welcome to APEDA The bodies that provide organic certification must be accredited under NPOP (National Programme for organic production) from APEDA.
The bodies which are accredited under NPOP from APEDA only have the rights to give an organic certification for the agricultural products.
The bodies which are not accredited under APEDA have no rights to provide organic certification in India.
To know the name of the bodies/agencies which provide organic certification under APEDA open the link below, <URL>" These bodies can give organic certification to any food products.
You ask shops to show the organic certificate to know that their products are organic or not.
There are many organic stores in Bangalore, you can Google search but I have explained how to know that the products are organic or not.
So let's say your product is Organic Milk.
Also, If I do understand the question correctly you are just starting an organic farm currently and are not sure of the product.
Yes everyone want to buy organic foods then it doesn't matter buying it online or going on the shop.
Organic is mainstream, so while you may not find organic fruit in late night corner shops (convenience shops) you will find it in almost every other shop that sells fruit and veg, from dedicated grocers to every supermarket chain.
mumbai has one organic farmers market
As organic is always healthy and preferred food even our ancestor ate organic food in past now we also are back to basics again n u can order it online.
All of the above,PLUS convenience of having my organic favorites readily available ( in summer, anyway)
And of course, organics are not GMOs.
There are a number of reasons people buy organic: 1.
Taste preference 6.
Ignore the smear campaign that is funded by Big Organic.
Agreed that there's no inherent link between non-organic and processing.
But it would be really interesting to see good studies on the soy-breast cancer link.
Particularly if stats for American women who eat unprocessed or minimally processed American soy look more like those of Japanese women eating Japanese soy.
But I doubt that's going to happen - either processed food manufacturers or GMO companies will take a big hit.
How do organic farmers get rid of aphids?
If I had to restrict my tea diet to only those that are 'certified organic', my soul would be crushed, a far worse consequence in my opinion.
I read certified organic to mean farmers who cut costs elsewhere to pay for the certification fees and/or are being courted by Western vendors.
Farmers and local vendors generally don't bother about organic certification, even if the teas are actually 'organic'.
Since I don't generally buy from Western vendors, I don't care very much for teas that are certified organic.
There is little point in consuming a poor quality tea that has been certified organic.
The main disadvantage IS government regulation and how that relates to economies of scale.
Farms large and small that exist to distribute food publicly have so many federal regulations on them that the small farmer really struggles to survive these days.
Regulation fees are far out of whack for small farmers who often have to pay the same rates as giant corporate farms.
The government has nearly regulated the small local farmer out of business.
This is the most notable in organic food which must pay extra regulation fees to use the term “organic”.
People think organic food is more expensive because of the scale and business model of the small farmer.
The main reason organic food costs more is because of the fees the federal government charges to use the term organic.
These fees eat so deep into the small farmers profit lines that they end up needing to charge higher prices to survive.
No country produces "mostly" Certified Organic Food.
(e.g.,, to use US standards, food that contains only organic ingredients, or is "made with" at least 70% organic ingredients).
Organic has a lot of different definitions and standards and levels associated with it.
A lot of farms meet all the organic criteria, but don't want to go through the expense of being certified.
That said, the only/best global data we have is based on "certified organic" farms.
** You can see here, the countries with the highest percent of certified organic agricultural land.
Source: <URL>" Of course, organic agricultural land doesn't equate with production.
Here are the countries with the highest number of organic producers: <URL>" And, of course, production doesn't equate with consumption.
For example, in a lot of Latin American countries, over 85% of organic produce is exported.
** If we're not looking at "certified organic" agriculture, Cuba would actually come pretty close to meeting the standard of "mostly" organic food (see starting pg 198 here for an interesting discussion <URL>" ).
I wanted to explain the difference between whole foods and organic whole foods.
Let’s compare something like regular chicken with organic free range chicken.
Organic does not necessarily mean the animal is treated humanely or free to roam around.
Ideally, you probably want your chicken to go out and peck and live a healthy life, but that’s not a guarantee with organic foods.
While an organic food should theoretically be more nutritious, since they are not pumped with hormones and pesticides, the rules are so vague that it’s not a guarantee you’re getting food that is of significantly higher quality.
Famrers pay for their produce to be certified.
In many countries the words 'organic', 'bio', and 'biologically' are legally regulated.
Meaning of 'bio' and 'organic'Since you used the word 'bio' in your question I suspect you are from Europe, because both 'bio' and 'biological' are used in many EU-countries (with a Latin or Germanic language) to refer to what native-English speakers call organic food.
I assume that with 'bio' you mean 'organic' and not bio-based products.
Basically an organic label on a food is a guarantee that the food was produced according to organic farming principles.
Organic food in EuropeFood in EU-member states may only contain the words 'bio', 'biological' or 'organic' if specific regulations are followed in its production and if the producer has been certified by the proper authorities.
Here are some of the main rules for organic foods in the EU: No use of synthetic pesticides or fertilizers in production, only a small list of naturally-occurring pesticides and fertilizers are allowed.
Farmers must use organic feed that doesn't contain substances that artificially promote growth.
Livestock must be born and raised on an organic farm, have enough housing space and the total number of animals should be limited so there is no overgrazing or soil erosion (more info: regulation on livestock) Genetically modified organisms are forbidden (adventitious presence of GMOs with a maximum 0.9% of the product is allowed).
At least 95% of the ingredients of a product should meet the standards for being organic.
The food producer has to be certified by the national agency that is in charge of the audit and certification process.
Products from the hunting or fishing of wild animals do not qualify as organic.
In other countries such as the US, Canada or Australia, the basic idea of an organic product is the same, but some of the regulations are a bit different.
Although Wired magazine reports that Monsanto is doing some kick-butt enhanced conventional breeding programs to change these ratios, mostly in favor of increased sugar = more taste.
Furthermore, the fruits are healthier for having done their own bug resistance.
IMO, the real answer is a matter of faith, not (yet) fact.
The grains may or may not be organically grown to make the beer, the harvesting practices of the farmer are difficult to divine in a bottle of sake, heating the liquid to boiling temperature takes an enormous amount of energy.
The highest quality organic beef would likely come from an organic Managed Intensive Rotational Grazing (MIRG) operation - where the steers are all rotated onto new micropastures every day or two - and supplemented or even finish fed with a mixture of organic grains, organic corn, and minerals.
This is beyond organic, though.
The difference between organic and non-organic will be price and size of the birds.
In sum, a farmer who is concerned about organically grown fruit and meat will also likely be concerned about quality and ecology.
It seems that concern for ecologically safe practices correlates very highly with both quality and Organic certification.
Many farmers are 'beyond organic', and do not have certification.
There are farmers near me that have a state-run program called Michigan Agriculture Environmental Assurance Program (MAEAP); these farmers chose this program because it is also free, but similar assurance to consumers as USDA Organic.
As a consumer who purchases organic food could look in to two aspects, producers and distributors.
In this case, farmers.
They pay a premium to the farmers that would go as an incentive for farmers to grow food organically.
While we have genuine intermediaries who are inclusive of farmers in the over all business.
It takes time to make money from organic business.
You can ask the seller how and from where they collect the farm Produce.
You may call at 910 892 0231 or visit us My Goodness Organic & Natural Store - JP Nagar - Bangalore - India or like and follow us in Facebook, <URL>
It is a very good question, and one that doesn't get defined enough in debates about the organic food movement.
The food movement is often described as bringing together a wide range of groups with different interests, who each find it in their interest to associate with each other despite having often fundamentally opposing beliefs and policies they would advocate.
There are many different coherent stories that can be told in response to the question.
There are other perhaps more convoluted stories that may be told depending on the source of the organic food.
The other day a survey was published that showed that the primary motive for large corporations to move into organic, sustainable and biological was…..drumroll….
higher perceived value = higher possible price point = higher margins
Same goes for organic food.
There's no way of knowing that the organic food did it.
In the UK the larger supermarkets all sell organic food and deliver to your door.
www.sainsburys.co.uk www.tesco.com www.waitrose.com There are also some specialist organic only delivery firms but I've found them a little more expensive.
So I'll assume your question is really more like "Is food with a label of organic certification better for my body than less expensive, 'regular' food."
Those advantages are more about less productive but tastier varieties of plants or stock, and different growing or feeding conditions.
These same advantages could be achieved with or without an "organic" operation.
If you are a person who appreciates well made and finer things in life, then organic foods complements your life style.
The nutritional value is also likely to be similar, since both carrots are something like 2-4 weeks or more out of the ground before they get to you and started losing flavor and nutritional value the moment they were pulled from the ground.
I use carrots as an example because if you want to taste a huge difference, especially between organic and "conventional" (ha!)
From trying various organic versus in nonorganic foods, there usually isn't a taste difference.
Milk is ultra pasteurized meaning it has a longer unopened shelf life, but I haven't noticed a taste difference with milk either.
The biggest difference is the price.
But taste doesn't really enter into it for me.
I don't know what you mean by synthetic food, but there's no way to distinguish "organic" from other foods either by flavor or nutrition.
However, I have personally noticed considerable difference in taste between organic and non-organic in certain items, particularly potatoes and asparagus.
It's unlikely that the organic vegetable you bought and the non-organic one are the same variety, picked at the same time, followed the same route to market, and were grown in the same place, so they may taste different.
Generally speaking, outside those factors, the only difference is a tendency for organic farmers to select cultivars of fruits and vegetables that are heartier against pests.
Fresh locally grown produce (regardless of whether it's conventional, organic, or GMO) will almost always be superior in flavor.
Although each individual chemical has been tested for safe levels, the combination or build up of several pesticides within the body is unknown or each individual detoxification capacity.
Also, what is considered a safe level of a pesticide for a pregnant woman, any answer to that question remains controversial.
An unripe tomato plucked while green and shipped 5000 miles will lack the sweetness and vitamin c of a tomato allowed to ripen in the ground, organic or not.
The reasoning is simple, you can give a plant fertilisers containing NKP(nitrogen,potassium and phosphorous) and they will grow well but many more nutrients required to grow healthy plants that can to a degree fend for themselves.
A wider range of nutrients would be found in manure than modern fertilisers.
Many small farms had been using organic growing processes before it was cool.
In season I can travel to a dozen farmer's markets, roadside stands and people's homes to buy fresh organic fruits, veggies, honey and eggs.
The big farms (read, Monsanto, et al,) caught onto this and instead of fighting against the organic farmers, hopped on the bandwagon and started offering their own lines of organic products with 'farmy' sounding names like Hidden Acres, or Green Valley and such.
It is, as other answers have pointed out, a debatable point as to whether organic food really does taste particularly delicious.
You don't explicitly make a claim as to organic food against non-organic food, but if I sensibly infer such a claim from the "so" qualifier you use, there are plenty of studies that disagree - to a point.
For example, a study in Nutrition and Food Science ( Page on emeraldinsight.com ) found that when blinded, organic juice tasted better, but organic milk did not taste better than non-organic milk.
Even Stephanie Zonis, who seems to be generally pro-organic, in a non-blinded taste test, says the results are mixed ( Page on thenibble.com ) and concluding: "I cannot state definitively that organically produced or raised foods taste better (or worse) than their conventionally-produced counterparts.
The best place to start is the Organic Consumer Organization website, but here are some tips and suggestions for buying organic more economically.
First of all and the biggest way to save in my opinion, is always buy organic fruit and vegetables when they are in season.
You can also save quite a bit of money buying these in bulk.
You don't want to buy all those delicious organic food only to have it spoil do to improper storage.
Check the organic farms in your state and locate organic farmer’s markets, which have fresh products on a daily basis.
You can also grow your own organic produce.
Check with your local gardening supply store to find out how to begin an organic garden, and the supplies needed.
They have a wealth of information on where to buy organic foods and other products.
Inquire at your favorite organic restaurant s to where they obtain their food supply.
Once you find an organic supermarket or.farmer’s market, buy in bulk.
Just as you would at a conventional Sam's Club or Costco Store, you can certainly load up on grains, nuts, and other organic foods.
typically, vendors selling everything from organic vegetables to humanely raised beef and poultry bring their wares.
It is mostly all marketing.
Buy of very small producers if you want an organic kick.
Try your local allotments there are always allotment holders who grow and produce more than they can consume.
As far as taste, of everything but the beef, I don't see the difference if everything else is equal.
The same argument can be made for “local” which also may or may not have more/less of an environmental impact.
global organic sales reach 63 Billion, and the US is the largest market ( Sustainable Business ) With 63 Billion in sales world wide it only takes a very small percentage of the total organic marketplace to have a successful thriving business.
Whole Foods on the Tenleytown Metro Station and Clarendon.
The Costco store in Carson City, NV just started an organic food section.
I expect that if customers buy that inventory, Costco will expand it.
Businesses are nothing if not responsive to customer demand.
If you're looking to add an item at a particular Costco in your area, you'd probably be better off speaking with the Warehouse Manager directly.
Having worked there in college, I can tell you that the Warehouse Manager has some say regarding what items are carried in the specific locations they manage.
If there is enough demand for organic food then he/she might be able to influence the buyers in getting more of the products you want.
How could we encourage Costco (or any business for that matter) to do anything?
Somebody say "Whole Foods!"
Even if you don't like them or think they do a good job preserving the planet, Whole Foods is an acceptable answer to this question that has been sitting unanswered for a couple of days now!
Markets generally separate organic and non-organic produce, and label the organic as such.
Some markets only sell organic, and you can find out which ones by doing a search online, tailored to your location.
Organic is worse for the environment, and has no nutritional advantage.
There is no evidence that organically grown food is more nutritious.
It's perfectly possible to grow organically on an industrial scale where the quality and environmental impact is no better than non-organic.
In other words, not all organic is the same and not all non-organic is the same.
No studies have been done to compare nutrient loss in organic vs. non-organic, so let's assume it's equally true of either.
Hence why I buy organic.
Definition #1“Organic meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products come from animals that are given no antibiotics or growth hormones.
This is the lowest quality version of organic and while you do have fewer pesticide residues and fewer antibiotic resistant pathogens, the nutritional quality is usually very close to the same.
On the other hand this version of organic really was invented to meet certain regulatory guidelines and many organic growers don’t even consider it “organic” at all.
How about omega3:omega6 ratios in organic vs conventional animals?
tl;dr: A rigid dichotomy between organic and conventional agriculture does not appear to be practical at this time.
This helps add some perspective to the assumption that organic farming is perfect for the environment.
The need of the hour seems to be an investment in training and education around the benefits of low-input agriculture as well as organic farming.
Organic farming is a relatively sophisticated system that combines age old wisdom with modern innovation.
So there is no evidence that organic food is better or worse for you than a varied diet of conventionally-grown stuff.
When it comes to animal products, organic to me means all that (i.e.
Unfortunately, mega-corporations who only have monetary interests at heart continue to do everything they can to destroy this concept.
Is organic food really good for you?
Chemical and natural fertilizers are equally detrimental to the water supply when overused.
This is a broad farming practice issue, not an organic-vs-conventional issue.
Which means, for example, that responsible conventional farming would be better on this point than irresponsible organic farming.
Fruit you buy at the grocery store is not "processed" (whatever that means exactly).
But there's no inherent relationship between crop growing techniques and food processing techniques.
But this is a logistics/storage issue, not a growing techniques issue.
When you apply organic management you use other crops waste to convert it into organic fertilizer.
Buying organic is not primarily about your health.
It's primarily about the health of the environment.
If you're passionate about that, then you need to buy everything organic.
On the other hand, buying organic helps build the market for organic products, so perhaps more options will exist in the future.
In case the question changes, the one I answered was: “How much healthier are organic apples?
First, I already clarified by stating that I use neither synthetic nor organic chemicals on my garden; see above.
Nutritionally there is no difference between organic and conventional produce.
The key point, organic in most cases is not truly organic, it is 80–95% organic which the non-organic proponents will take as meaning it’s no different from mass grown foods.
In life however, you need both to quantitative and qualitative to balance which is where organic comes in to play, you are playing the long game, prevention is the best cure.
With organic you are, more or less, buying prevention which is qualitative not quantitative, you will normally only know it works years or decades down the line.
The key to organic is to ‘dilute’ the synthetic chemicals in your environment, how much you choose to dilute determines the amount of prevention you are building in to your life, and everyone has a different answer.
The advice here is to either cook organic plant foods or wash them extremely well.
A string of recalls for organic products has cast much-needed light on this big food safety myth.
Are Organic Foods Naturally Safer?
That's because berries have been organic since the beginning of time.
Do you understand the difference between organic/non-organically grown food?
Basically organic vegetables and fruits are grown with natural fertilizers.
Organic produce contain more protective antioxidants, less pesticide residue and low levels of toxic metals.
If people want organic food, then the producers can charge more , not less .
A viable way to improvethe food in prisons withoutincreasing costs and in a sustainable way is by growingour own food through an organic processsuch as permaculture, hydroponics, and aquaponics.
There, The Green Life group aim to start an organicfarm to train its participants in the urban organicfarming process of permaculture and green technology comprised but not limited to food growth, and communityeducation and heritagegarden.
If the correctional system approves The Green Life organic farm initiative, it will be both California's innovative approachto rehabilitating its felons, and a sustainable food process that can be easily replicated in each of its other 32 existingprisons while improving the inmates' nourishment at a very low cost.
At San QuentinState Prison, the urban organicfarming can also be implemented successfully, with the networking participation of all of you, my nature-lover friends.
If you like to see a positiveimprovement on the food served in prisonswithout being a burden to taxpayers' money, I invite you to support The Green Life's initiative at <URL>" and help The Green Life organic farming programto become a reality.
For water, synthetic fertilizers and pesticides are prohibited in organic farms so underground water will not be polluted.
3) The size of the organic food field is smaller than the common one, so things like supply chain are not as good as common food industry, it will cost more.
If demand for organic completely replaces demand for chemical, the price for organic will come down.
The other part is that often it takes more labor to grow organic food.
So part of the cost goes to paying the farmer to grow that food for you organically.
I helped a buddy of mine on his organic farm in Indiana a few summers ago.
Also, the term "organic" must be defined.
The term is rather vague, unless it is "certified organic" as defined by the FDA.
To be certified organic by the FDA involves special regulations and red tape.
I am not trying to be negative of certified organic, that's just the way it is.
There could be two farmers who both grow the same produce, using the same organic methods, but the one who is certified organic.
The certified organic farmer will have to pay various fees for permits and inspections that the organic farmer does not.
If the demand for organic produce increases, there will be more people who begin to supply that demand.
if you grow it yourself :) but meanwhile, when "organic" and "natural" are highly fashionable and in hot demand, they will always be more expensive.
try some of your local farmer's markets for good deals.
Organic foods are not inherently more sustainable than conventional foods.
Buying organic produce at the grocery store is not much different in the big picture than buying their conventional counterparts, other than it is more expensive.
The best way to know about your food is to talk to the person that grows it and hear from them how they do so.
Not if you would like to pay the bills and continue to be a farmer.
Unfortunately, “sustainable” food sources are mostly theoretical in the modern world.
As of now most people are talking about organic farming and only some are into practices.
Any high quality product will always cost more than a low quality product, because more care goes into making these products.
Also, organic farming does use fertilizer but they cannot use synthetic fertilizers or fertilizers that contain hormones, antibiotics or GMOs, etc, which is another reason why organic produce is more expensive.
We at LEFO tea (click www.lefo-tea.com) provide best quality organic tea at 50% of current market price.
Our USP is : LEFO (Local, Exotic, Fair and Organic ).
We swear by our commitment to fair trade and we are certified organic.
We do not want to grow big in size but always be the limited small scale organic exotic growers.​As we source directly from our tea gardens, we have the capability to keep the cost at very low level.
All food is organic, everything.
And so if one has to start with organic farming then one has to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and other agrochemicals (pesticides, fungicides, nematicides, molluscides, rodenticide and etc.).
so for the upcoming crop supply only organic manures which are cheaply available.
so by doing these and by avoiding such harmful chemicals one can get the fruits of organic farming.
These are the new ways which are still to be introduced related to organic farming which can be adopted without any cost to improve yield- Use of vegetable,fruits waste which are generally thrown into the garbage dump.
Conventional, "organic", and "free-range" animals are sometimes grown side by side, differing only slightly in their feed content and cage design.
The thing with organic farming is that one needs to experiment and make up a stratergy according to their farms location ( Water availability, soil, climate etc).
1) Buy a pack of organic seeds/saplings from a trusted vendor.
There are organic ways to control each and every type of pest that you might encounter.
Most people think they should do it for health benefit reasons - honestly, what you eat is a much bigger impact then any slight change between organic and conventional would have, where it even has a change.
The pro-Organic side tends to think that organic uses no pesticide (they do, often shorter lived but more toxic ones), and the fact that it does take more people to farm organic then conventional.
Because I find any conversation about organic or conventional that doesn’t mention LED grow farms is basically partisan hackery that leans towards big-agri or big-organic.
You can read a meta-study of 100 studies, Does organic farming reduce environmental impacts?
Furthermore, the organic revolution has not been around long enough to compare organic vs. convetional farmers.
Furthermore, application rates of organic chemicals can be many times more than the that of synthetic chemicals.
For instance, they say organic farming uses crop rotation.
The only thing that the organic means is that the pesticides must be organic in nature.
I'm assuming that by "chemical fertilizers" you mean those fertilizers not approved for organic use?
Technically, all fertilizers are chemicals, even horse manure, and many purified fertilizers with simple chemical compositions are approved for organic use.
Organic fertilizers are mineralized by the action of bacteria in the soil, where non-organic fertilizer comes in the form of mineral pellets that just have to disolve.
Although organic fertilizers are much better for the soil, there's no real food safety concern around non-organic fertilizers.
I think it's important to note that agriculture does not have to be viewed as organic versus conventional.
Conventional farming uses many methods that organic farmers use and vice versa.
Thus, they expect organic eggs to be brown, and most organic egg producers will keep breeds of chickens that lay brown eggs to confirm to that.
There are many online organic stores are available across India, if you still don't believe on organic products, certifications are fake.
It's an organic pesticide!
It refers to Bacillus thuringiensis , a bacteria found on the surfaces of leaves, on soil, in drinking water, etc.
Take actual Bt bacteria and dump them on a plant, and that's organic.
You cannot limit exposure to it regardless of what you eat, but since it is proven harmless to humans, it doesn't matter .
Hence why I said the terms don't matter.
Your organic food is just as [un]likely to poison or harm you as GMOs; sometimes in a different way, sometimes in the exact same way!
Organic flour – Apply regular fertilizers, for example, excrement or manure, to bolster soil and plants.
Utilize bugs and feathered creatures, mating interruption or traps to lessen nuisances and ailment.
Turn crops, till, hand weed or mulch to oversee weeds.
Shower bug sprays to decrease nuisances and sickness.
According to USDA Organic Production ERS data, 2011 had 5.3 million acres of USDA Certified Organic farmland, with 3 million of that cropland and the other 2.3 million rangeland.
0.002% of total land mass in the US is organically farmed.
0.006% of all farmland is organically farmed using USDA Certified Organic certification, yet Organic products accounted for 4% of food sales according to Organic Market Overview .
B) Organic produce is more likely to see a human consumer than a pig or cow belly.
But rather than get into so many details, I would pose the question back to you: What about all the pesticides used in organic farming?
If you are thinking that organic farming somehow equates to clean and happy and safe and natural food, think again.
They sell only genuine organic natural products.
Brands like Orgra are direct from their panel farms, Orgra products are Millets, Rice, Wild Forest Honey, Siruthen Honey, Wood pressed oils, their price is affordable.
I started using only ORGRA products now.
Im a big fan of <URL>" - India’s Largest Online Organic Store.
The Rodale Institute isn't particularly respected among serious agronomists (I have plenty of friends who work on organic ag, and don't care for them).
For example, their much publicized conventional vs. organic experiments use obsolete and destructive 50 year old techniques such as conventional tillage with moldboard plows.
Source: USDA imposes new standards for milk to qualify as organic This is not necessarily good for cows: being out in the pasture can be deadly in the wrong climates, such as overly rainy or cold ones.
People care about organic food as they believe (often but not always correctly) that it is healthier for them.
In comparison humanely raising animals is about animal health.
It is an ethical issue for humans not a health issue.
In order to farm organically, the farmer needs to make sure that the soil remains healthy.
(Small Planet Foods) However, it can be argued that *just* eating organic food, without also becoming vegetarian, is an exercise in futility.
I agree with you about organic food.
That one is organically farmed Scottish salmon.
One thing I've heard is if you're only going to supplement your groceries with one or two organic items it should be dairy due to the rigorous standards that must be applied to the entire supply chain.
Organic food has the two types Certified,Non-certified I'm going to talk here only about Certified Organic food Organic systems rely on more expensive, natural ways of producing foods with the nutrients you're looking for.
Labor and transportation costs Distribution chains are very less In food production Health risks to farmers Environmental enhancement and protection ( Example -higher prices of organic cash crops compensate for low financial returns of rotational periods which are necessary to build soil fertility) Higher standards for animal welfare Credits- Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
The claim is that an organic cow will be given "real" drugs when sick enough.
Unfortunately, this renders her irreversibly not-organic, halves her value, and requires her immediate departure.
Organic egg production is the production of eggs through organic means.
In this process, the poultry are fed organic feed.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, organic means that the laying hens must have access to the outdoors and cannot be raised in cages.
Organic spices can be bought online in various stores in India.
Organic Wheat is grown without the use of synthetic pesticides, or synthetic fertilizers.
Organic food is not genetically modified, and most time produced on smaller farms.
Not many wines are organic down here.
Are you planning on selling 'organic' foodstuffs in Mexico regionally, nationally, in upscale metro areas (DF, GDL, MTY)?
The Asian supermarkets in Chinatown behind Leicester Square have some organic and plenty of fresh fish & veg.
Once found only in health food stores, organic food is now a regular feature at most supermarkets.
On the other, you have one that's organic.
Both apples are firm, shiny and red.
Both provide vitamins and fiber, and both are free of fat, sodium and cholesterol.
Which should you choose?
Conventional vs. organic farming The word "organic" refers to the way farmers grow and process agricultural products, such as fruits, vegetables, grains, dairy products and meat.
Examples of organic farming practices include using natural fertilizers to feed soil and plants, and using crop rotation or mulch to manage weeds.
The reason organic produce is offered in the area I live in is because of the American Expats that live down here.
I can say though that for the organic produce that is available, it's way more cheaper than what it's being sold for in the U.S.
That distinction is made in the US.
The primary difference sulfites aren't allowed to be added to 'organic wines' In Europe they don't make that distinction - organic is how the grapes are grown.
To my palate, an organic wine made without added sulfites, has a very different flavor profile and won't live very long, compared to other wines.
In the UK organic milk is sold pasteurised along with ordinary milk in standard 2L and 4L plastic jugs.
They are of organic origin .
No products in world are chemical free.
For instance, cheap hot dogs and lunch meat are organic.
I heard a statistic of 4% of all foods sold is of organic origin.
The question seems to assume there's some nutritional difference between organic and conventional.
Organic foods are foods produced by methods that comply with the standards of organic farming.
Standards vary worldwide, however organic farming in general features practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity.
Organizations regulating organic products may choose to restrict the use of certain pesticides and fertilizers in farming.
In general, organic foods are also usually not processed using irradiation, industrial solvents, or synthetic food additives.
Currently, the European Union, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan and many other countries require producers to obtain special certification in order to market food as organic within their borders.
Although the produce of kitchen gardens may be organic, selling food with the organic label is regulated by governmental food safety authorities, such as the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) or European Commission.
While there may be some differences in the nutrient and anti-nutrient contents of organically and conventionally produced food, the variable nature of food production and handling makes it difficult to generalize results.
A refrigerated non-organic apple will keep for months (although it may dry out a bit).
If you seriously care about your health and the health of your family, take the financial savings realized from buying regularly collected and marketed milk and spend it on a good routine of serious exercise (weight training or resistance machines) and work out 3 times a week enough to generate a head to toe sweat.
People asking about organic milk are often thinking unprocessed milk.
Serving non-organic food is not illegal, so it is not possible for such a requirement to exist.
For vegetables, you definitely want to go organic.
Though "organic" is also a bit of marketing.
You are safe if you know the farmer does not use pesticides.
There is a list of organic approved pesticides, usually because they are derived from natural sources.
As for taste, that's subjective.
If you like the taste of organic food better, then great!
So it’s bad for economy, and a wash on health.
Organic foods ONLY?
Organic foods are great, don't get me wrong-- and if you want a strictly organic diet that is up to you and there's nothing wrong with it.
If you want to maintain an organic diet, don't cut out ALL non-organic foods.
It's not a matter of organics having no nutritional advantage, but that organics do not pose a nutritional disadvantage .
That is why I am suggesting that you only have to buy some of your food organic.
Granted, organic farmers also need to use some more user-friendly insecticide chemicals like copper sulfate.
Looks like this: Although then you get into the whole debate about exactly how the USDA regulates their standards.
Here are some great resources to learn more about the various food labels in grocery stores: What Do Food Labels Really Mean?
The term “organic” is specifically a marketing term, and doesn’t have anything to do with food quality, safety, or environmental impact — it simply involves certification that the regulatory requirements were fulfilled to obtain a certificate for labelling.
Certification is quite expensive, so much qualifying food does not carry the label.
Markets like Trader Joes and Whole Foods do NOT claim to be 100% organic markets.
A product is completely organic only if the label says '100% organic'.
This is all as per the laws framed by USDA and FDA.
And, USDA does allow the use of antibiotics while the cow is pregnant.
This can get absorbed in its meat and can have residues in milk.
Organic Fruit & Vegetables are certififed by different certifying bodies and the growers pay for this certification and guarantee.
What is the certification log on on the product?
Is it USDA certified organic?
The process of certification for organic foods that are USDA certified organic is regulated by the National Organic Program.
There are many organizations that can certify foods as organic following the standard set by the NOP, which is under the US Department of Agriculture.
Eighty four certifying agents are currently USDA-accredited and authorized to certify operations to the USDA organic standards.
Of these, 49 are based in the U.S. and 35 are based in foreign countries.
Most certifying agents are directly accredited by the USDA National Organic Program (NOP).
Twenty additional certifying agents are authorized through recognition agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments.
You can read more about this on the USDA - NOP program website: USDA Accredited Certifying Agents So yes, foods coming from Mexico can be certified organic.
Supply-chains are incredibly complex, and keeping things perfectly separate is economically unfeasible (same idea as "may contain traces of nuts").
<URL>" It gets a little more complicated with processed foods with many ingredients: Is Organic Always GMO Free?
Finally, note that "organic" has various definitions across markets.
The EU, for example, is more stringent.
Organic doesn't always mean healthier.
Further, organic doesn't guarantee things like pesticide free.
I should note international imports using the term "made with organic" must meet the USDA guidelines.
These guidelines includes the stipulation that the product is composed of 70% organic ingredients.
If it is labeled "organic" it must contain 95% organic ingredients.
It is also important to buy from Organic stores /shops - who carry multiple brands and unbranded organic stuff, the store people come to know any such problem.
You can always ask your server or chef where they get their ingredients.
Bertrand is USDA / organic certified.
We comply with organic regulations and are inspected by Finnish Organic Inspection body Evira (FI-EKO-201).
Traces of pesticide mostly do not matter much.
There are serious ecological implications to eating organic that I think are actually even more important than the taste.
And the environmental impact of “organic” is worse.
Is organic food healthier?
In general, it is not demonstrated that organic food is healthier than conventional food.
However, it is impossible to say how big the differences between organic and conventional products will be exactly.
The variation between organic products is large and this also depends on the season, region and varieties used.
Healthy eating pattern is not dependent on the first product Further defines not a single product but the composition of the total package food and drink for someone to take it to them, how healthy is his diet.
For your health is not a must to eat organic.
Speaking only for myself, I buy organically-grown food not because I expect immediate or even eventual health benefits for me personally, but because in the long run it's better for the soil and for the whole web of life that supports us.
I used to eat organic food because I believed that organic agriculture was less environmentally damaging than conventional.
I no longer feel compelled to purchase organic products for environmental considerations.
However, I still sometimes buy organic food if a product that I like happens to be organic.
"Organic agriculture" once implied the promotion of natural soil, plant, and animal health, and production without using synthetic inputs, such as chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
Mainly, organic products can't be subjected to pesticides/herbicides, synthetic hormones/antibiotics or chemical fertilizers.
Organic food makes a series of claims about nutrition and pesticide residue.
Generally the yield is lower.
They do - the pesticides and fertilizers just have to be of organic origin..
The criteria for organic origin are somewhat arbitrary.
I have worked in processing plants that ran organic foods.
Farmers that grow organic can charge a higher price to compensate for their reduced yield, and this guy can afford to pay extra if it makes him feel better.
You see, in an organic processing plant, the water that is used to clean the food is recirculated.
The only difference between conventional and organic is who decides what chemicals can be used in their respective production.
Under the National Organic Standards Act, farmers and other organic proponents politically appointed to the National Organic Standards Board decide which chemicals can be used in "organic" production.
They are: 12 Most Contaminated Peaches Apples Sweet Bell Peppers Celery Nectarines Strawberries Cherries Pears Grapes (Imported) Spinach Lettuce Potatoes 12 Least Contaminated Onions Avocado Sweet Corn (Frozen) Pineapples Mango Asparagus Sweet Peas (Frozen) Kiwi Fruit Bananas Cabbage Broccoli Papaya Here is the definition of organic: The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has created an organic seal.
Notice it doesn't say no pesticides and no hormones, just that there are restriction on which ones and how they can be used to qualify as organic.
Just because something is labeled organic doesn't automatically make it better especially if you choose to buy your food from big box stores like Walmart or the others.
Seems a bit strange to eat organic and then do synthetic recreational pharmas, or drink bad beer, or drive when you could walk.
All natural is worth buying though.
All natural means that the food has nothing artificial.
The price difference is much lower than that of organic, and the benefits are much more noticeable for the cost.
There are both white and brown organic eggs.
It's all in when the bean was picked...Not it's organic label.
While the jury is still out on this one, I agree with Ryan that the difference between nutrient levels in conventionally grown produce and organic fruits and vegetables would be very small indeed.
However, other studies have not been able to replicate these findings, as reported in this New York Times article of 2012.
The organic food will become relatively cheaper.
There might be some services also around organic food such as home delivery.
In Pune, I used to buy organic milk at Rs 75/- per litre because of the following reasons: - It was organic.
My first reply is YES we need to pay higher to organic ,if it produced by following the principals and practices of organic genuinely.
The difference between the organic beans and non-organic is in the way the plants were farmed.
We at My Goodness Organic and Natural Store has seeds and garden based products.
My Goodness Organic & Natural Store - JP Nagar - Bangalore - India
How much are organic products going to cost, will that affect the prices you charge for meals and will people pay extra.
To be certified USDA organic, 95% of the product must be free of pesticides, solvents, artificial colors and dyes, no chemical fertilizers.
Washing pesticides off your produce is the best way to avoid consumption, whether it be organic or not.
Organic food, at least in the US, has to meet certain criteria to receive its designation.
The easiest way to decide is to check out the "dirty dozen" The New Dirty Dozen: 22 Foods to Eat Organic
Even though organic is more expensive, if your diet is mostly produce, your grocery bill would be lower than someone buying boxes of hamburger helper.
USDA is the enforcement of organic labels, indicating certain things may or may not be done or not done.
Organic certified costs in inspections and meeting requirements.
Using organic practices isn't organic certified.
It's not so much a matter that organic food (itself), is any better for your body than regular food.
The other main argument lies in the cost differential between organic and regular foodstuffs.
Instead, start by thinking carefully about exactly which foods you want to buy organic.
Almost everyone would choose organic over non-organic foods,but organic food is a higher price typically because organic food is often produced on smaller scales,which cant really keep up with demand so prices are fairly high,and non-organic food is produced in large numbers so supply often keeps up with demand and prices stay low.
Many people feel strongly that organic food is, or is not, better for health and which is the truth won't be answered here.
Everyone who wants to shift toward a greener and toxic-free living, dips into the organic diet.
Those of us who earn a modest income can find the prices of such organic food products exorbitant, which causes us to slide back to our old ways.
In India, a food product is deemed organic only when it is certified through the National Program for Organic Production (NPOP).
If he's well paid he could afford organic.
If he's smart he won't care if his food is organic or not.
Therefore, it is still important to remember to wash all fruit and vegetables before consumption.
So basically then, based on what you're saying, organic fruits and vegetables are no safer than regular
That depends on the motivation of buying and eating purely organic food.
However if it's for the mistaken belief that organic food is healthier and 'better' for you, then no, because that's a fallacious assumption.
Test after test has shown virtually no difference in the nutritional value of organic food, yet test after test has shown that organic food can contain a far higher level of fungi and bacteria, especially on the skin.
Whilst these aren't necessarily harmful in the short term, they're certainly of no benefit and can potentially pose long term health risks.
Commercially grown organic vegetables have to meet or exceed the same food safety standards as conventionally grown vegetables.
Certainly as far as larger scale wholesalers and retailers are concerned, the risks of buying from unauthenticated suppliers is too great.
In fact you're statistically more likely to become ill from eating many types of organic produce, for the simple reason that naturally occurring fungal spores can grow on their surface after harvesting, and if the produce is left too long before consumption, these fungi, whilst still not visible to the naked eye, can reach potentially harmful levels.
But I must emphasise the incidence of this is low.
100% organic: All ingredients must be organic Organic: At least 95% of ingredients are organic; remaining ingredients must be approved substances Made with organic: At least 70% of ingredients are organic As mentioned earlier, you must be sure to read the labels to determine which percentage of organic content is actually contained within the food.
Requirements (Label) Organic – Manufacturers of organic dog food must follow specific guidelines that are governed by specific laws.
about the number of deaths due to pesticides compared to the number if only organic produce was available.
Organic vegetables actually have more pests on them than do those treated with pesticides (Duh!).
That means you need to wash them even more if you intend to get rid of the pests that weren't killed because no pesticides were used.
Pesticides don't either, of course.
A list of commonly used organic pesticides can also be found here: Some Pesticides Permitted in Organic Gardening With a quick look, i was unable to find anything relevant on toxicity of organic/synthetic pesticides to humans.
There is slightly higher exposure to pesticides from conventional produce, but simply washing fruits and vegetables before consumption would be an effective measure to substantially reduce pesticide exposure.
Organic wine: Organic wine is produced from grapes that are grown organically.
Organic cultivation excludes the use of artificial fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides, and herbicides.
There are more than 2,000 organic wine producers globally.
I started purchasing organic milk for my family two years ago.
The question was “Why is it imperative to you to eat organic food?”.
A basket of fruit and vegetables, a pesticide and an insecticide and said that you’d only make your food from one.
Organic is a bit different.
The law that created "organic" in Anerica is known as the National Organics Program (NOP).
This is a document that outlines exactly what "organic" means in America and also made it a law that for you to label something "organic" you must be certified as stated in the document.
If I follow all the standards in NOP regarding agricultural methods but I don't go through the certification process then I can not sell my products as organic.
If I follow even more stringent standards then required by the NOP by I am not certified I still can't call my products organic.
Now as to what this really means, it's just a way for the large commercial farms to get into the "organic" market.
Small scale organic (and sustainable) farmers that don't have the money to be certified and re-certified every year can't use the organic label.
These regulations generally do two things: 1) no GMO seed 2) no use of certain chemicals.
Yes I did say "certain" chemicals because if it's on the approved list you can use it and a lot of them are manufactured chemicals that start with some non-petrochemical base and produce something that is useful through chemistry.
"Organic" without USDA certification is illegal and can mean anything, supposedly, though I tell people my produce is organic, I don't sell it in retail markets but directly to the customer.
My process is more stringent than the NOP but I can not legally label my produce organic in a retail market (and it is illegal for them to but from me anyway).
The argument in favor of washing produce is supported when the produce contains surface pesticides (typically because it's not organic, but there are some organic pesticides as well.)
If you're buying fruit or salad that is already in a box and can't really really be touched by shoppers because it's protected by that box, and you have good reason to believe that the organic pesticides are nonexistent or not particularly harmful, eating that produce without washing it may well be beneficial.
A field can be converted to fully organic within two to three years and for getting certified to get your produce to go into domestic of international markets you need to get certifications from third party agencies which do inspections of your field.
Organic is a labeling term that indicates that the food or other agricultural product has been produced through approved methods that integrate cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity.
Synthetic fertilizers, sewage sludge, irradiation, and genetic engineering may not be used.
To a chemist, an organic pesticide is one that contains carbon.
All pesticides regularly used in agriculture would be organic.
To a consumer, an organic pesticide might be a pesticide that comes from a natural source rather than industrial chemical synthesis (obviously, naturally occurring pesticides are chemically synthesized, but by living things).
This has been used for decades by organic farmers, and it's the insecticide found in Monsanto's genetically modified "Bt" crops.
They tried to use the marketing phrase "all natural ingredients".
Using the word "organic" is fairly recent and it is a contrived marketing phase that stuck.
Calling foods "organic" because they were produced without pesticides or antibiotics doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but it worked for marketing and became a new slang term.
In replacement to these,organically produced manures and fertilisers such as vermicompost,green manures, green leaf manures and organic pesticides and insecticides like neem foliar spray, neem kernal extracts,Panchakavya(made from 5 products of cow) Dashakavya(made by adding different species of leaves to panchakavya) are used.
To follow organic farming,the field be made chemical free for at least two and half years.
After that the respective organic farming authority approves the land.
In india,there are few certification agencies like IMO control private limited and Indian organic cerification agency (INDOCERT) which are accredited to government of India.
National Programme for Organic production (NPOP) Sets the guidelines and rules in india.
Organic farming is a system, which avoids or largely excludes the use of synthetic inputs (such as fertilizers, pesticides, hormones, feed additives etc) and to the maximum extent feasible relies upon crop rotations, crop residues, animal manures, off-farm organic waste, mineral grade rock additives and biological system of nutrient mobilization and plant protection.
To know about Organic farming Click here .
Do you have any sources for the claim that organic products contain less pesticides and ‘toxic metals’?
A lot of people make an automatic assumption that if they buy organic it is safer and better on all aspects.
There is no reason to stop buying organic, we just can't buy it for the label.
if we use chemical fertilizers and pesticides with in limit i.e as required can the product obtained is equal to organic farming product?
The “organic” standards in Europe are different than in the U.S. One cannot rely on it implying “pesticide free” everywhere.
Some organic pesticides that I know of; bT - bacillus thuringiensis is a bacterium that actively attacts some insect types, especially moth and caterpillar and some beetle types.
Please note, genetically modified organisms which produce bt toxins (so called Bt corn or Bt cotton) are not organic, but the application of Bt spores at certain times of the year is considered organic.
Organic farming is slowly catching up in India, may be due to the hype created.
All farming practices a few hundreds of years ago were all organic, but inventions during the industrial revolution and population growth all lead to inorganic methods and usage of harsh chemicals in farming.
Organic just means either no chemicals or no chemicals on the restricted chemicals list are present in the soil or the produce.
Most governments have lists of acceptable or inacceptable chemicals for organic certification.
Just to add to Stijn Hommes ' answer, organic fruits can also be coated with pesticides... organic pesticides.
You would need to abstain from pesticides, herbicides and also synthetic fertiliser to be considered Organic.
In the UK, organic has a legal definition if you want to sell product labelled as organic.
The soil association has a set of rules about what can and cannot be used and if you want to produce food commercially which is labelled organic, you have to start following the soil association rules.
You need to follow them for a number of years in order for all the synthetic chemicals which have been used previously to dissipate and they will test your soil for synthetic residue.
After you get the all clear, you can label your produce organic for sale in the UK.
Amateur gardeners may use the term more informally bur even for them there is an organisation called Garden Organic which gives advice and gets members to participate in scientific trials of effective organic methods etc.
I am not sure how much of this applies outside the UK but there are pretty strict rules about what is considered to be organic though out the European Union .
Everything we eat is organic in nature but not necessarily grown with organic conventions or the use of man made fertilizers and pesticides.
The risk from pesticides in produce grown conventionally varies from very low to very high, depending on the type of produce and on the country where it’s grown.
healthhunt.in: Nutrition, Fitness, Organic Beauty, Mental Wellbeing, Love is Asia’s first fully-integrated content led marketplace for all things Health & Wellness, that brings together short, punchy & actionable content, with verified and linked products and services.
So, if you’re looking for authentic, organic, natural, chemical-free food products then here’s where you will find it.
I don't know what condition would not allow you to remove dairy from your diet, so I can't comment on that.
The term "organic" can mean a lot of different things, but by and large it indicates food that is grown without chemical pesticides, fertilizers or other additives.
There's a few reasons why growing food organically can be desirable... 1) Most grown food is harvested and processed by people.
But you could blame this on our regular exercise program that we are also doing.
We do not have any major diseases that people in our age group develop.
And no offense at my observation, but I do see how it can be effective if you truly believe that organic food is substantially different.
Have you any evidence for the proposition that organic food is healthier?
The best place to order organic veggies and groceries is undoubtedly Uorganica.
Organic/inorganic doesn't affect nutrition.
But if you eat processed foods, fried foods, fast foods or other unhealthy foods eating a few organic meals will not make a difference in your health.
Organic farming.
That IPM is aimed at minimizing or optimizing the use of high risk pesticides; IPM is not organic farming.
Example: kashi cereal since day one has claimed to be organic (GMO free and pesticide free) and they advertised that they were.
Understanding the 'USDA Organic' Label Those 275,000 comments and several reports are available publicly.
Go to their website and search National Organic Program.
While these methods have been approved for use in general agricultural production and may offer certain benefits for the environment and human health, consumers have made clear their strong opposition to their use in organically grown food.
Since the use of excluded methods in the production of organic foods runs counter to consumer expectations, foods produced with these methods will not be permitted to carry the organic label.
Organic farming does not have anything to do with, nor does it oppose GMOs.
A lot of farmers now adopt new and ingenious methods of producing organic fruits and vegetables.
One such method is called aquaculture, where organic fruits and vegetables are grown in a growing medium and feed off the waste produced from a fishpond.
This is one of the best examples of sustainable organic farming.
Some of the common products are an organic salt, organic sugar, and even organic “daals”.
Some of the more popular online stores for organic foods in India are natures basket, localbanya, baazarcart, and lalaji24x7.
However, if organic farming can sustain the current and projected world populations is currently being analyzed.
According to the definition of "organic farming" given by the European Commission's Agriculture and Rural Development department, one of the criteria of organic farming is the "absolute prohibition of the use of genetically modified organisms."
Reference: What is organic farming?
Culinary bulk and retail herbs - certified organic with distribution to major players in the industry.
I can only assume they use local, organic, and sustainable when financially convenient, but that certainly GMO foods are also sourced.
'Organic' is a method of farming with out synthetic chemicals, hormones and additives.
Although there have been organic foods for some time, in the US, the USDA certified organic program was started in 2002.
There are also government subsidies available for organic food production, but not at the same level commodity producers receive funding.
Is there a basic definition of "organic vegetables"?
Because food is so basic, just as basic as water, and shelter, each person is allowed to have their own personal definition of "organic".
However, for the sake of conducting commerce, each nation has it's own legal definition.
Organic farmers did not.
If Monsanto employees were offered an organic fruit on one plate, and a GMO fruit on another plate, which one would they pick for their children?
Just to add on a bit: First we should make a distinction between organically grown tea and organically certified tea.
Not all organically grown teas are organically certified and fewer still may be organically certified in your market.
You can probably start a new farm outside the 'core producing area' or 'zhengyan' area of Wuyishan or halfway down the mountain from Wudongshan and get organically certified but of course the drop in quality is expected.
The cost of getting organically certified is almost US$2k.
Additionally, if you want the USDA Organic seal on your product you will need to go through an organic certification agent.
In much of the coffee-growing world, "organic" is more about labeling then the reality of how the coffee is produced.
So in order to answer you correctly about organic fresh produces worth buying, we need to consider were you live and what time of the year you are.
Agriculture is full of surprises and very often, if produces are treated organically, rarely every year is the same.
Fruits and vegetables with 4 numbers on the sticker means they were conventionally grown, and 5 numbers beginning with a 9 means they were organically grown.
For potentially toxic materials that is a deceptive amount of wiggle room.
While "buy local, know your farmer" and farmer's markets are exploding and are trends, not all farmers at farmer's markets are organic and many use GMO seeds and apply pesticides to their crops.
When it comes to preparing for organic farming, in the U.S. at least, it's best to start with the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
There's a great deal involved in being certified, and one MUST be certified before one can claim that their product is organic.
It’s really just marketing.
For the same species of plant, organic and conventional products have the same nutritional value and flavor.
For animal products, the difference in flavor based on what the beast ate would certainly overwhelm any organic/non-organic flavor difference, even if there is one, which I doubt.
So if you want to eat organic, you'll have to trust your food vendor, your restaurants, and your restaurant's food vendor.
The problem with store bought veggies is that the regulations for "organic" don't have the same USDA "definition" as our common usages, and that folks (or "regulators") aren't always honest when Profit is involved.
Witness the flap a few months ago about the supposedly "organic" milk sold by Safeway and Kroger stores under the "O organics" house label which a organic advocacy group, bought, tested, and found it to be conventional milk which was "relabeled".
Yes, that "organic" milk met USDA standards, but those "standards" are VERY different from Our understanding of the meaning of the word.
Those "standards" specificaly allow the unrestricted use of antibiotics, and many other supplements (among other things).
Thus, as with the terms "natural", and "cage free"; the term "organic" is being "conveniently" "redefined" by our "regulators" to allow multinational and national corporations to do whatever they damn well please in the name of "protecting" corporate profit at all costs.
Bottom line: If you didn't produce it, or personally know the people who did, it may not be what We define as "organic" (no chemicals, no pesticides, no antibiotics, and grown using sustainable methods).
I am not really sure how you can verify if it's truly organic though; you could always ask the people there.
They seem to be genuinely organic if you want to try... Or you could do as I try to do - grow your own veggies on the terrace (Or at least some herbs and greens).
What "Organic" certification can you get?
You may wish to take a look at the formal organic marking trade: Industry Statistics and Projected Growth
It is a divine place which sells organic products, has a detox cafe and an organic restaurant.
To know if processed and manufactured products are truly organic, you can just check the certification mark but fruits and vegetables are a little harder so buying them from recognized organic outlets would be advisable.
Technically, the label Organic means that the Soil Association has provided the manufacturer with a certificate stating that the food has been produced according to certain, rather arbitrary, criteria.
These criteria include - Crop rotation - No genetic modification - No antibiotics or wormers - No cloned animals - No battery farming These criteria do not include - The size of the farm - The length of the journey from producer to shelf - No pesticides - Free range So, a product labelled organic might have been exposed to pesticides on an enormous farm on the other side of the planet - and a product from your local farm shop might not be eligible for the Organic label on a technicality.
The marketing term "organic" doesn't actually mean anything so there is no way to answer your question in that context.
How can I trust the claim that it's organic , and spend extra for it ?
There has only been one really good study comparing organic and other farming directly with appropriate controls, and it was only done on strawberries.
In the US, organic farming can use pesticides, so long as they are natural.
Someone mentioned container gardening and I thought I should expand on that.
First, you'll want to make sure your patio gets enough sunlight for the veggies you pick.
Secondly, Get sturdy containers that have drainage wholes on the bottom and also buy either a plastic container for the bottom if the container doesn't already come with it (you don't want to hurt your deck by putting it straight on there) Third step.
buy ORGANIC gardening soil (NOT top soil) or if you have soil around that you can use mix it with some organic compost ( How To Compost | Organic Composting 101 ) to give it enough nutrients to kick start your plants :) Not sure your soil is good?
Here Are 66 Things You Can Can Grow At Home In Containers When it comes to watering, it will depend how much rain water you get a week.
Typically you want to water them with at least 1 inch a week (which can be difficult to determine at first).
Organic herbicides commonly used are oil-based herbicide, soap-based herbicide, and acetic acid.
They are applied with Backpack Sprayers (used for fruits and vegetables) Crop Sprayers (used for commodity crops) Mulches don’t kill weeds.
They cover the soil surrounding crops, preventing weeds from germinating and growing.
This method doesn’t prevent all weeds from growing, however, so plan to pick weeds from time to time.
What type of farming equipment?
Why would that preferentially benefit from organic food?
The main "organic fertilizers" are, in ranked order, peat, animal wastes, plant wastes from agriculture, and sewage sludge Animal sources include the products of the slaughter of animals.
Bloodmeal, bone meal, hides, hoofs, and horns are typical components.
So to be green, it's probably ideal to eat organic food in the UK... but it also means you have to be on board with animal meat production/consumption as well.
In general, organic foods are also usually not processed using irradiation, industrial solvents or synthetic food additives.
Even organic farming as practiced today is highly mechanized, and even if it required three times as many people as it does today it would still use only a tiny fraction of the population.
The big unknown is whether we'll be able to do so in the future, and the whole point of organic agriculture is that conventional farming is unsustainable and won't be able to feed this many people in the future.
Buying organic is a demonstration of support for a philosophy of farming and caring for the earth, the water, the animals that give us food.
Organic chemistry didn't bother renaming itself to something like carbon chemistry because everyone understood what it meant.
Organic milk is milk from livestock who have been bred and brought up under the standards of organic farming.
For instance, an organic farm can not use synthetic pesticides or drugs like hormones and steroids.
Organic milk will have a label showing "Certified Organic", although it may be certified by any number of different entities.
Don't get me wrong, do your research, there are many products that claim to be organic but aren't wholly organic, but it's worth the effort to know the difference.
There is no nutritional advantage to organic food.
People who insist on organic have typically been frightened into it, or are being fooled by an orthorexic halo effect into thinking it’s somehow magically “better”.
I know that opinions are split on the organic/non-organic foods.
Coffee with an organic label must be roasted on a roaster dedicated to organic green beans, or on equipment that has been thoroughly cleaned between roasts.
For this reason, most small batch roasters either sell all organic coffees, or none at all.
And sometimes, for marketing reasons, we’ve seen roasted bean labeling highlighting organic beans, even though the equipment renders the roast non-organic.
Fact and Fiction: What is Organic Coffee?
When you buy organic produce and meat what do you look for on the package?
In my experience, USDA has a fairly comprehensive set and can be a good starting point - Agricultural Marketing Service - National Organic Program
According to Wikipedia: " Organic foods are foods that are produced using methods that do not involve modern synthetic inputs such as synthetic pesticides and chemical fertilizers.
[1]" <URL>" In the U.S. you might see labels certifying foods as organic.
There are typically laws (certainly in the United States) that define when you can label a food "organic".
USDA Certified Organic stamp, Non-GMO label, no antibiotic included/grass feed...For fruits/veggie, grocery stores usually have the organic section pointed out and you can see all the produce there have the same 9xxx series code.
There is absolutely no way to tell an organic vegetable from a non-organic vegetable unless they are labeled.
Single-ingredient foods (like apples) have to be organic to get the organic certification.
However, this does not apply to multi-ingredient foods, which only have to be 95% organic to get the label.
Even a 99% organic food can only get the standard organic label.
There is, however, a 100% organic seal that multi-ingredient foods can earn if, in fact, they're 100% organic.
Additionally, there's a seal that says "Made with organic ingredients."
Yes, as Tiangyi SI says, any high end supermarket in a major city will have vegetables labelled as organic.
There is definitely an organic foods movement in China, although I don't think it's yet a major cultural force.
But with things that have a thick peal (like Bananas or Avocados), I fail to see the appeal because any "chemicals" typically don't make it past the thick skin.
There are many organic fruits and vegetables seller available in Bangalore.
There are many online organic food stores are also available which will give you privilege to order orgnic vegetable from your home itself.
we sell 100% organic certified products into our store.
Please visit the site Organic Fruits And Vegetables, Organic Fruits And Vegetables Delivery, Organic Fruits And Vegetables and check out our whole new range of organic products.
Another suggestion is to read the magazine Organic Gardening .
It is how I learned a lot about gardening organically.
Another good source of information is Rodale's All-New Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening: The Indeispensable Resource for Every Gardener.
The website Organic Pioneers since 1947 has online courses, webinars, etc., for people who want to learn about organic gardening.
Buy all kinds of fruits and vegetables in delhi at Best Online organic store in Delhi This is only the trusted and leading online store where you can buy organic juice and foods.
"They can try to sell pre-cooked foods warmed up by drones, essentially selling you organic TV dinners" Ironically, I received a Google Alerts notice today with an announcement that they're selling frozen dinners through Amazon:fresh to various parts of the Seattle suburbs.
Safeway [A much smaller collection of organic produce; regular other items] 4.
A competitor to Whole Foods doesn't necessarily have to be a natural or organic food store to be considered a competitor.
In the US Organic milk doesn't mean unprocessed, it means that the cows were on an organic veg diet and no antibiotics were given.
Two things to look for in Organic milk are 1.
Trader Joe's sells Organic Cream Top milk but I don't believe their milk is slow pasteurized.
Look for the organic grocery store on MacDill … Rollin Oats, I think?
Also "organic" offerings are richly offered at Costco, at least in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Whole Foods, Chipotle... Maybe companies that sell farming equipment, non-gmo seeds.
Yes, it's certified organic for both the EU and the USA.
They have quite a variety of wines, so it would depend on which one you chose.
I'm partial to the Graciana as that is a hard to find grape.
Here's the site: Bodega Cecchin - Mendoza
ecotokri is an online store that lists all organic products on its website(food/clothing/cosmetics etc).
There are many other comapnies in this space like greenngood,iamgreen etc
That doesn't mean there aren't positive affects yet understood from eating organic.
However, organic may also be viewed as a differentiation business strategy and despite empirical evidence of benefits it is BIG business these days with growing market shares.
Are you looking for the best places to buy organic foods online?
Here is a list of some of my favorite internet food shops to find organic ingredients forcooking.
If the customer was not there when the butcher came to slaughter their animal, we took a polaroid showing the dead animal with their mark.
The reason I shared this is because, that was the bulk of our advertising.
Fresh eggs, sweet corn, watermelons, cantalope, tobacco and hay rounded out the bulk of our farm operation.
We always took the time to show everyone around our farm if they wanted to see it.
You can buy organic and gourmet product online at Gourmetdelight.
It is a premier online organic food store and gourmet shop in Mumbai India.
If someone would like to come up with a healthy and organic fast-food company and grab the niche, I suspect McDonald's execs could still go home and sleep well at night.
According to the standards set for organic milk, I doubt any of the companies, or at least the majority of them can work to meet them.
Organic milk means that the milk comes from cows that are reared without any growth hormones that are artificially made.
Another thing worth taking note of is the fact that for the milk to be organic, it has to be milked and drank instantly, without any preservatives or anything of that sort.
Source: Does Organic Milk Really Worth Going The Extra Mile?
Even Monsanto -- the most despised company by most of us interested in organic food -- says it encourages organic and sustainable food production!
Why does it have to be a "health food store".
look around other places want your money also and will have natural/organic foods also.
But in general it's easier to find a small-scale organic producer which picks the fruit ripe than it is a non-organic producer.
So yes, you must wash all food, organic or otherwise not only because of pesticides but as Jeremy Miles points out because of the other factors involved in food production.
VERY much agree on the taste difference!
Organic plants are the same plants as non organic.
Look for beans that get to you quicker (weeks instead of years).
My friends and I could tell the difference between the organic and the conventional reliably.
Compare organic vs. non-organic fresh celery!
They might be higher in anti-oxidants than inorganic, but taste largely depends on where they were grown, where and when they were harvested, and how long it took them to get to you.
Yuki makes a very good point that taste is subjective and affected not only by the actual chemical makeup of the food, but by expectation and perception.
If you think something will taste better because it's organic, it probably will!
Yes, organic food tastes the way the earth intended it.
I can't tell The difference between an organic apple and a conventionally grown one.
[1] <URL>" [2]Supplementation of soils is the key to organic farming, and it is implemented on a small scale and a mid-scale, but not on a large-scale.
On the other hand, compare organic lettuce from Walmart to the normal stuff in target and you won't find much of a difference.
I think most of the flavor/taste difference comes from handling and freshness of the food.
Maybe, but not because they’re organic.
Coincidentally, though, some organic food is grown on boutique farms which produce prettier or higher quality products in exchange for bigger environmental impact.
Sometimes, it's because farmers grow and sort organic produce as a "premium" (high-margin) crop, with different growing/harvesting/shipping practices (like growing heirloom tomato varieties or leaving the fruit on the tree a bit longer).
Most of that material ends up back in the field as organic matter, however.
So what does it take to have an organic vegetable garden of your own?
We could set up big farms in the rural prisons and grow organic food for all the prisons in the rural areas (which means almost all of them).
Organic can still use pesticides and fungicides and food safety can be influenced by the farm.
For example, I'm not certified organic because it doesn't allow some things to be used with animals.
I don't lie to people about it but equally don't qualify for organic.
I use organic seed and such in the garden and share the what, why I do what I do with customers especially.
There are some that perhaps might be organic but could do better in food safety practice or something else.
Kindly look into the methods used for insect and animal control used by organic farmers.
Know how organic farmers control weeds?
Know how organic farmers control aphids?
I'm not sure you're aware of this, but lots of organic produce is made with pesticides and herbicides.
You can see details here Pest Control in Tropical Organic Gardening Biotechnology and Pest Control in Organic Gardening Organic Sprays for Pest Control
"Organic" and conventional farming rely heavily on the use of molecular compounts such as DIHYDROGEN MONOXIDE (DHMO)!!!
It comes from Organic Farming, which was a term first used by Oxford University agriculturalist Lord Northbourne, in his book Look to the Land in 1940's.
Northbourne touched upon the subject of fertilizers and chemicals being used on farms, calling the method as Chemical Farming and then comparing it with a bio-dynamic methodology or organic farming.
“In the long run, the results of attempting to substitute chemical farming for organic farming will very probably prove far more deleteriousthan has yet become clear.
When we refer to organic farming, are talking about green manure and compost, biological pest control?
Maybe I don't actually know what organic farming is.
As per the definition of organic farming,it is the system of farming in which we exclude synthetic chemical fertilizers and include green manures compost and farming wastes by the definition itself we can conclude that irganic farming iclude those rhings which are already exist in our farm so it automatically reduces off farming wastes and reduce pollution
On the other hand, it is quite a regular occurrence to find lab tests showing Glyphosate on organic food from blow-over or runoff from a neighbouring farm.
Yes organic farming is the future in India.
I fully understand about the rigours of organic certification as the rest of my answers will testify
People buy organic food is the belief that it contains more nutrientsThis is hard to study, because organic produce is actually quite diverse in this way, with a number of nutrients significantly affected by the quality of the soil, the growing conditions, and when the food is harvested, among other things.
Well, I want organic fruits and vegetables and I live in Hyderabad.
Im trying to convince my family to switch to organic but I have no means to PROVE that the produce that is being passed off as organic is actually organic.
And I tell them that at least there is a chance that these actually are organic.
Sourcing an entire menu of only organic ingredients would be difficult, perhaps not insurmountable, but it might limit the menu.
Organic food is more expensive, and food cost is a fast food restaurants biggest cost.
Proponents of organic food would be happy to pay the extra, but people who are indifferent about organic food are likely to be put off.
In the UK organic food sales account for around 1% of all food sales.
So a starting point would be to assume that the market for an organic fast food restaurant is 100 times smaller than the fast food market.
Given the aforementioned limitations I cannot see an organic fast food restaurant do well.
An organic cafe, yes, certainly, but not a fast food restaurant.
If I want really good food, I'll go to a farm shop or farmers' market and not care whether or not it's organic.
I actively avoid organic food.
I found the following article useful for you to see whether organic food is worthwhile or not: Is Organic Food Really Better and Worth the Higher Price?
Unless you are under severe financial hardship, I think it's worth it to buy organic dairy and eggs, particularly if you have children.
"The cost of organic food is higher than that of conventional food because the organic price tag more closely reflects the true cost of growing the food: substituting labor and intensive management for chemicals.
There is no way of knowing if a product is fully or partly organic, oe even a pretender.
If an organic product costs more to inventory (keep in mind that stores purchase on speculation, and they don't always buy precisely the amount they need to satisfy demand in a given week), then that same organic product also costs more to waste than the conventional one.
I think that if I were a cannibal that ate organic, I'd hunt at organic food stores.
I actually don't think it makes any difference if you eat organic or non-organic.
The pesticide scare, and other food horrors is overblown.
you can find organic teas on www.organicteaschina.com
If you don’t eat organic food, you’re not eating the pesticides and insecticides from the other pictures.
Those are washed off until there’s less than 0,01 parts per million left of detectable breakdown products.
Some "organic" farms are worth than "regular" ones.
Organic does not mean that no pesticides are used, only that the pesticides must come from an organic source.
It's interesting to underline that all food is organic except salt and water.
Organic food is basically used to refer to food/crops that are not produced using conventional methods of production.
Which means that these food items are free of any pesticides and food additives.
Although the nutritional value of organic food items has been disputed, it significantly reduces a persons exposure to contaminated/adulterated food.
It is legal to produce, process and label food and other Certified Organic products using pesticides and other chemical inputs that have been approved for use.
Organic food is too costly but healthy for body whereas conventional food is slowing taking away your body health.
Get now free from pesticides 100% organic food products at your home!
Know more whether organic food is worth or not?
But if you need a choice, I'd choose the conventional, and leave organic choices for vegetables and fruits that are eaten with their peels for example.
It depends on the apple sort.
The organic apple sort "Topaz" is the waxiest I've ever eaten.
They keep for months in a correctly humidified refrigeration with minimal shrinkage.
It depends on the apple variety, organically certified or not.
You say “Some organic products have higher levels measured in vitamin C, minerals and bioactive substances.”, but I have yet to find someone who can actually prove that.
You know what else is organic?
The red bell pepper has more vit c. Than wouldn't it stand to reason that an inorganic red bell pepper is more nutritious than an organic Orange?
Page on organic-center.org Also, I recommend looking up Dr. Norman Walker who is the founder of the cold pressed juicing method (Norwalk cold press).
The market for organic eggs is smaller than that for non-organic eggs, which to me implies that the logistical system between producer and consumer would be shorter.
A watery (older, non-organic) egg is less likely to stick to the hot metal of the frying pan than the fresher organic egg with its denser protein.
Lets forget the media boosts, the expert opinions, health advisories and even the government recommendations on choosing an organic lifestyle.
The apples I've grown at home don't keep either.
Mine are organic but only by neglect.
There is a lot of research on when to pick and how to store -- maybe the smaller organic farmers cannot follow all the best practices to the letter.
Maturity and Storage of Gala, Fuji, and Braeburn Apples Summary It is no longer possible to assume that the fruit on the whole tree can be harvested at the same time as with Red Delicious.
Multiple harvests are needed in order to reduce the variable maturity of the fruit borne on Fuji, Gala, Jonagold, and Braeburn.
Fruit stored in CA is superior to that stored in regular storage, even when CA conditions are imposed for a short time, providing that the conditions are established rapidly after harvest.
I have collected resrouces on them here: Organic vs conventional food It must be reasonable to assume, that should there be a stable measurable difference in the nutritional content of organic food, several reviews would be able to arrive at that conclusion independently of each other.
As people use more organic products, they'll have subtle olfactory, oral memory tracks reinforced and those anthropomorphic, DNA food cells will scream louder for fresh, chemical -free sustenance.
Organic food, to be exact, refers to food produce and agricultural products that are grown without further modifications.
Farmers and agricultural experts who grow organic crops only apply natural fertilizers like compost and manure to suppress weed competition.
When we say organic farming it means the quality not the quantity.
Another option is to purchase a farm share at a local organic farm and get a box of groceries once a week.
These vary, some deliver, some are less expensive and you go pick at the farm.
There are growers using no chemical fertilizer no herbicide and no pesticides.
You need to familiarize yourself (if you are a North American, USA) with the regulations that specify what is 'organically' grown.
You also need organic certification (after 3 years of organic farming) to sell certified organic produce in markets.
Proponents of organic farming, in my experience, are more idealistic and usually envision a less resource-intensive, vegetable-based average world diet as the optimal solution
" organic" is really a marketing label rather than a "real" thing in much of the coffee worl Finally got what this craze about Organic food is all about.
Maybe but maybe not there is legitimate research showing actual difference between organic and non.
The thing is, the debates surrounding food policy, organic agriculture, etc.
are loaded with myths, half-truths, simplifications, and obfuscating discussions.
Be it organic or inorganic.
Nebraska Cover Crops: What, Where, and How Organic farming can almost keep pace with current non-organic.
So, in my opinion, regionalizing food and reducing food waste would be a good place to start before saying organic or inorganic will or will not supply enough food, and let the farmers and the consumer sort out how they want their food grown in the process.
The first key to being successful as an organic farming is to have the knowledge to minimize your mistakes and the cost of those mistakes.
In organic farming efficiency is everything and acquiring as much knowledge as you can before you strike out on your own is critical.
Thanks for the answer =) In my case i have the land already and my father already do farming since his early days so i have some material, i was wondering what kind of techniques are used in organic farms to prevent pests and i also liked to ask, in your opinion, when starting an organic farm should i just focus on one kind of crop?
First by understanding what it means and second by knowing what you wish to farm organically.
So, the USDA is the official "Certified Organic" label?
Are foods grown just using organic practices safe to eat if you don't know the farm?
Organic farming can be daunting for many that venture to grow their own food.
Choosing which medium you want to grow in can be entirely dependent on the local climate in your area.
For summer growing, a simple garden with organic soil in a well lit area can be the solution.
This link is helpful in gaining some basic information about your question More information from a different resource: Grow Your Own Organic Food Other methods for growing include hydroponic and aquaponic systems that use water and nutrients in place of soil, but these can be more tricky to effectively produce yield.
I will ask a friend who is an organic farmer to answer.
You might just be surprised to find that you won't be alone if you enter organic farming with a PhD in philosophy.
Many of the substances on this list are considered by hard core organic farmers to be quite questionable.
Code of Federal Regulations Now if you talking about good old fashioned organic farming and disregard regulations designed let give the big guys unfair advantages in the name of making sure everyone can compete equally, then Andrew Mateskon list is absolutely perfect.
So do you think it's the organic farmers that are reaping the excess profits, or are the grocers making all the money here?
In many "organic" (used loosely) or "natural" farms, the real value of the meat animals is in their poop, used for fertilizer.
Regardless of the comparison to organic farming, that kind of range would require considerable further investigation.
My two cents aside from what everyone else wrote below is that Organic does not equal healthy.
Production method wise - there's never a better answer than growing the food yourself...I think you can never really know and I wouldn't be surprised if big food manufacturers found ways around growing organic foods and using chemicals etc.
If you want to drink organic premium quality tea, then try Zaira.
There are plenty of web sites spreading bullshit about organic.
The rise of organic food is caused by the increasing awareness people have about their food and where it comes from, that does have an impact on obesity for sure.
Depending on your views about what is organic, marijuana (ingested or vaporized) can be effective for headaches.
Is Organic Produce Healthier Than Conventional?
Certain fruits like apple, grape and blueberry are much better if they are organic.
we plan to open organic food shops with premium food products
It depends on the individual what kind of vegetables or fruits they are willing to have it might be organic.
Instead of buying organic vegetables better to go with growing own vegetables at your balcony or terrace which is good for health as well as no need to worry on pesticide vegetables.
And why don't you simply _buy_ organic carrots, apples, potatoes, etc.
Things like organic apples or potatoes are items you can examine in the store, to determine whether or not they meet your criteria.
Is it fresh, is it processed, is it organic, is it fair-trade?
Buy organic eggs, or if you can't, just get regular.
it's mainly because of the organic composition and depends what kind of apple it is.
My suggestion to you is to go to Shop Makeup, Fragrance, Skincare & More Beauty | Sephora and go to the forums/advice section.
Wash your face, use moisturizer, use toner if needed, and definitely use sunscreen.
Organic and processed foods are not mutually exclusive.
In scaling up organic foods to be sold in supermarkets, many organic foods end up being processed.
Sounds like you are saying you can’t do all that AND drink organic milk
You can order organic vegetables & fruits on <URL>"
You can buy organic tea online at <URL>" .
I have written this blog to explain simply Am I to buy organic or natural, confused?
There is also a parallel infogrpahic on my website blog - Your ultimate quick view on when to buy organic products/ Once you know which ones to buy then you can see if its value matches.
They bought organic food from an organic food supplier.
Not all readers have an American diet, but concerns about organics/conventional/GMO/etc.
next time or two local grocery right to know where your produce is coming from and how it's being grown and if you don't know look look up the company give the farmer a call but I would say as an organic farmer and as a small-scale farmers spray about once a month but not and sometimes we also make our own homemade pesticide garlic onions Hot Chili Peppers for example and we leave on our beds or plants basically we're just trying to keep away insects that are eating our produce and making it look bad for Market.
It is not easy to find organic wines here :( as long as I can recall the only shop I found organic wine was El Galpon in Chacarita market.
organic things are generally free of fertilizers.
Grown naturally.
So when we see things like organic vegetables it means they were grown naturally.
So organic flour is probably made from organic wheat.
I assume if the MRL limits (maximum residue limits) as prescribed by Codex Alimentarius are maintained, then it should be possible to be called organic.
For instance, if the substance is coffee and you are extracting it with water, the coffee can still be organic.
Have you never ate organic food?
The various organisations I'm aware of that want to protect and promote the term organic to mean a certain thing are genuine.
However lets be real, marketers are in the business of moving product and there are no explicit laws governing the use of the word Organic to describe something.
To address the point raised about the term being redundant, Organic is used to describe an aspect of producing food crops.
This is really what Organic is referring to, the process the item went through to get on the shelf, not if it is a living thing or not.
I hear what you are saying -- go to the grocery store and you'll see lettuce that says it is organic and the regular lettuce is also organic in its being lettuce.
It ranges from metals, to organic food waste, paper waste, electronics, etc etc.
Because generally all food is organic.
You can’t really escape those organic molecules, like carbohydrates for example.
Eating non-organic food would mean that you live on stuff like water, salt and sand.
(thus having nothing to do with the fact that they are organic)
Now, I hear organic produce is grown with human parts.
See this fun debate about how many farmers preferred to be called "producers:" Youtube or this Podcast on Organic Farming .
There's very little direct transition (especially in terms of some monetary value) from philosophy to agriculture, unless you hope to write books about organic agriculture like Wendell Berry or Joel Salatin.
You run the risk of ingesting bugs with any food, organic or not.
Do you think you will feel different about organic foods?
Maybe the organic apple vendor actually de-waxed their apples... Hmm.
Find a local co-op for your organic meat and be careful not to waste produce.
It can include raw fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, sprouts, organic milk, organic milk yogurt.
Here it has almost run its course as more and more information is available regarding the differences between organic and non-organic products.
You get organic vegetables and grains
they are having a section for organically grown fruits and vegetables.
Thanks for tagging Justin and Adam, in that case we should ask them to answer this question: What should everyone know about organic food versus conventionally grown food versus GMO food?
Specifically, that “organic” food is superior to non-”organic” foods.
Certification for organic spice farms is an essential pre-requisite for marketing the produce as organic especially in the international markets.
How are you going to stay organic when you have depleted your soil of phosphorous?
It’s a new startup based in Bangalore and seems to be a good place to buy organically grown fruits, vegetables and grocery items.
Is it organic as well?
How much for that?
industrial organic food system should also consider sheanut cake/meal as a feed material.
Aren't there better ways to evaluate a relatively minor trend in eating as organic etc.
I researched this topic in a simple blogger last week Am I to buy organic or natural, confused?
Here are a few more Organic Agriculture National Organic Program FAQ: Becoming a Certified Operation Auditing and Accreditation The actual certification is done by a group of private business professionals who are certified as inspectors for the USDA to perform the necessary audits for organic compliance.
It's helpful to remember that there is a distinction between "organic" as in organic chemistry and "Organic" as in Organic food.
I would start with researching (and visiting) one or two local "green" organic growers locally and asking them for tips.
Anything organic could not exist if life did not, to put it loosely.
It depends on what you define as "organic".
It's a bit lengthy, but here is a great article that explains organics and debunks popular myths about organic food.
Biologique is french; you will find that it means organic in the colloquial, Whole-Foods sense of the word.
In French, we say only « biologique », which means « organic »... an organic plant is said plante biologique.
Now, in modern familiar language we say often « bio » only and it means « organic ».
The term is just a fancy French word for organic, probably meant to increase its marketability.
Unless you have celiac disease or consume substantial quantities of refined grain I would suggest organic.
NPOP national program for organic production is a Govt of India site.
What on earth makes you think I don’t object to “approved organic pesticides?” I don’t use any, not Neem oil, not Rotenone, I approve of ladybugs and Braconid wasps, and I give my cat free reign to kill any moles or mice he finds in the garden, that’s about it.
In chemistry terms, all food is indeed organic, since the chemical definition of organic is a compound based on carbon: “Chemically, any compound containing carbon, with the exception of carbonates and cyanides.” (source: Oxford Dictionary of Chemistry) Some biology sources have defined organic as “of, pertaining to, or derived from an organism or organisms” (e.g.
Over time, “organic” has come to mean something very different in terms of food and agriculture.
On its website, the United States Department of Agriculture states: “Organic food is produced using sustainable agricultural production practices.
Not permitted are most conventional pesticides; fertilizers made with synthetic ingredients, or sewage sludge; bioengineering; or ionizing radiation.
Organic meat, poultry eggs, and dairy products come from animals that are given no antibiotics or growth hormones.” (source: USDA.gov, How does USDA define the term organic?)
He states that now “organic food is defined not by any material substance in the food itself, but instead by the ‘holistic’ methods used on organic farms.” In summary, all food could be considered “organic” depending on the definition you use.
The problem is defining "organic".
There was action taken against seven suppliers of bottle water who used the word "organic" in labeling and marketing material: ACCC negotiates removal of misleading ‘organic’ water claims Note, the ACCC can, and does take companies to court who fail to "play ball".
There are quite a few words spelled "organic".
Organic is also a legal definition concerning agriculture, describing a certain process by which crops and livestock are cultivated and reared, and to describe the foods that are primarily comprised of such foodstuffs.
Anything functioning analogously to animal organs can be called organic.
Perhaps things that sounds like a pipe organ can be called organic, but I don't know.
What you should ask is quite the opposite: is philosophy grad school a waste for your dream of organic farming?
As a biologist, I would say that the suitability of human waste as a manure is unrelated to whether the food was organic or not, and, from the standpoint of pathogen content, almost certainly a varied diet that includes some meat or dairy would be safer.
No, the opposite: organic foods use organic fertilizers which are often based on animal by-products (e.g.
Add to that the fact that a large percentage of the upper middle and upper income segments-and these are the only people likely to think about organic food- are not very conscious about the benefits of organic food .
It is therefore quite unlikely that people will switch to organic any time soon, at least not in the numbers necessary to make a business venture viable.
Eating organic food is a lifestyle choice.
You planning to set up an organic food shop?
The differences lie in the definition of "organic".
However, when selling your food as organic it must meet the ruling definitions.
I recall a study that compared the differences between organic and non.
They found that organic foods differed only in having less water content and size.
Organic production is very regulated in Scandinavia and you get benefits (though not much) when turning your production organic.
These are an absolute necessity for plants, whether it be organic or gmo.
Swithching organic will not help this problem at all.
Specific sustainable incentives are researched, as are comparisons of organic and conventional agriculture.
Also, defining organic and sustainable agriculture is an incredibly difficult question.
First off organic and sustainable are not synonyms.
If you really want this to be organic, organic beans, veggies, fruits will do it, though as a side note the fiber content of non organic produce is the same if money's an issue for you.
Ok, But it's still only going to be riskier than the organic surely?
The bacillus may be used in organic farming, but not the genetically modified organisms.
This illustrates one issue that may confuse- calling something organic could mean simply that you grew it.
Home page Queen Creek Olive Mill | They aren't organic, but they are small scale.
I m going to start my organic store in haryana,from where I can purchase all item
Mam i am going to start my organic store in haryana,from where I can purchase all item
I am going to start my organic store in haryana,from where I can purchase all item
I am going to start my organic store in haryana,from where I can purchase all item ?
Iam going to start my organic store in haryana,from where I can purchase all item
not sure about banglore but you can visit here and check if they provide services there or not coz they have the best organic fruits.
